When the hard drive totally crashed (only 3 months old) I spent almost two hours trying to get help from technical support.
They have to have me read and reread and reread again the basic information to them (serial number, etc.).
A.).
Two weeks passed and when I called (five days before leaving for S.
A.)
When the product got here (took close to 1 month)  it did not boot up to start.
256mb RAM, 16mb Video (can change to 32mb using system memory), a combo DVD-CDRW drive, and some popular software titles running on Windows XP Home version.
(Get the realtek driver and XFree86 drivers and away you go.)
Snappy little box; envy of all my working friends (except those who upgraded to the FVR-28).
It has survived a virus almost causing it to crash (new virus software and restoring the operating system has prevented this from happening again) and it has maintained its speed.
(DVD region 1,2,3,4,4,5,6)The 1955-s803 will lock the DVD-rom in one single area, once you try to alter the regions a couple of times.
)For those presentations on the road try to carry a region-free DVD player along.
On paper they look very similar: 2.4 GHz Pentium 4, 512MB RAM, 40GB hard drive, 15 screen, ATI Radeon graphics chipset (AKA M6-P).
Also the backlit of the monitor may fail after some years of use (the flexible cable ruptures).
About after a year using this, it started to continously shut down spontaneously (usually when running many processes at the same time or a process that takes more CPU).
Ctrl key at an awkward location (not the leftmost in the bottom row)4.
HP was exceptionally generous in this, as they agreed to fix my laptop even though I purchased it second hand and it was more than a year out of warranty; however, that was about three years ago (it is now March 2010).
(Slow startup)- Cannot upgrade video card to include more memory.
Hint:  get the "Missing Manual - Panther edition" by D. Pogue and use it.
!Laptop #3 (I love the punishment) will be picked up tonight.
The back pin of the power plug tends to get a hairline fracture that forces consumers to "wiggle" the power cord on the back of the laptop.
This usually occurs after 1 - 2 years of ownership of the device.
On the other hand, the rarely used function (Fn) key is oversized and between the Control and Alt key.
The built in SD Card Reader seems to be faulty (may be a driver bug).
She opened the gift on Christmas day, the Computer work for 1 week only and died.
:)
He tried transferring all his items from his old laptop to this one (the ibook), however it would not read.
and i got no paperwork(company# or info on laptop) from company on anything with it.
Three bars (out of a possible 5) in connection strength.
I am speaking from experience, owning one of the iBooks from a couple years ago (700 MHz G3).
I SENT SEVERAL EMAILS TO ATTEMPT TO RECTIFY THE SITUATION AND WAS IGNORED ON THE KEY ITEM:received:Toshiba PORTEGE M200 PM-1.5G 1G 60GB (PPM20U-07UGR4)ordered:Toshiba PORTEGE M200 PM-1.7G 512MB 60GB (PPM21U-07UEV8)THE OTHER EQUIPMENT THAT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE INCLUDED WAS RECEIVED ONLY AFTER 2 OTHER EMAIL COMPLAINTS.
Happy shopping ;-)
3 hrs)DVD burnerSD/MMC card readerExternal monitor supportCons:No floppy driveNo manual or support documentationNo original discs for installed software (for backup)No IEEE 1394 ports (FireWire)
Lacks a microphone (has a jack) and FireWire.
Live and learn :)
This is during the warranty period(1 yr).
(Although it works on 7.)
After surviving more than a dozen falls  the Thinkpad keeps on Chugging along.
And I have a Gateway NW78 (2010).
I need a new hard drive (which is hard to find) but al in all it has been my faithful companion for the last 15 years (somewhat like Tonto).
60 gig harddrive 2 gigs of ram,try getting that from a tablet.
Friend was installing memory for prior owner when he had a fire at his house.
He picked it up and we watched water pour out, like coffee out of a cup, he sent it off with a restoration company who had all of his belongings for the better part of a year.
Features added to 15" Powerbook over the 12" Powerbook include; backlit keyboard, Firewire 800, 10/100/1000 Ethernet, 1.67 Processor, 128MB VRAM (vs 64MB VRAM in the 12") S-Video out, optical audio in/out, dual layer SuperDrive and a PCMIA Card Slot (Type I & II).
Apple Support says they know nothing of the issue, yet Apple has released a Technical Support Note ([...]) that offers this solution: "To avoid this [audio problem], run only one audio application at a time".
This thing gets really hot (around 80C) playing movies and games.
LA HE COMPRADO HACE UN PAR DE MESES EN AMAZON.
COM, DEBO DECIR QUE HASTA AHORA ESTOY MUY SATISFECHO EN GENERAL CON ESTE EQUIPO, LA CALIDAD DEL MISMO ES  BUENA, CREO QUE  VALE CADA CENTAVO QUE CUESTA,PERO COMO TODO EN LA VIDA TIENE ALGUNOS FALLOS  QUE APPLE DEBE RESOLVER,  AUNQUE DICHOS FALLOS  AFECTEN  POCO  EL  USO DE ESTA MAC PRO.
POR SUPUESTO ME HE TOMADO  LA MOLESTIA DE ENUMERAR LOS PRO Y CONTR.
PROGRAN EQUIPO PARA LA MAYORIA DE LAS ACTIVIDADES CASUALES Y SEMI- AVANZADAS.
PRECIO ES REGULAR PARA LA CALIDAD OFRECIDARAPIDA  Y CONFIABLE, TENGO MAS DE UN MES USANDOLA Y NO HE TENIDO AUN NINGUN PROBLEMA.
CONTSE CALIENTA DEMASIADO ESPECIALMENTE EN LA PARTE DE ABAJO DEL EQUIPO EN SITUACIONES DE USO INTENSIVO, CLARO ESTO ES EN  RELACION CON OTROS EQUIPOS DE IGUAL CAPACIDAD.
PANTALLA  CON POCA RESOLUCION, POR DIOS APPLE  ES HORA DE AUMENTAR LA RESOLUCION EN ESTE EQUIPO.
PESE A TODOS LOS CONTRAS, ESTE ES UN BUEN EQUIPO, PERO TODO AQUEL QUE NO SEA FANATICO DE APPLE DEBE ADMITIR QUE ESTA MAC-PRO  TIENE ALGUNOS FALLOS QUE DEBEN CORREGIRSE PARA PODER PASAR DE UN BUEN EQUIPO A UN GRAN EQUIPO..
As usual, apple makes the best hardware laptops... these things are streamlined to perfection (except something... see below).
pros:14.1-inch Wide screen-untill now Thinkpadz are pretty Boxy  & now they look cool with the new WideScreen look(Thanks for LENOVO for making this move).
)1GB Ethernet Network card--grow people its 1GB internet access broadband.
(to pc of course)
Paying to have it shipped back to them ($50) in hopes they can fix the problem.
I am getting a feeling that soon Mac will turn in to the new McDonalds, it;s getting too popular and the Apple people are getting too cocky these days.... and without Steve Jobs....
Muchas gracias, he recibido a satisfaccin el producto en impecable estado como siempre.
Support was awful (try being on hold up to an hour).
while all computers are defective as they are subject to viruses, hacking and assorted crashes as well as more dysfunction the more you use them, I can truly say that what sets dell apart is that their website and customer service is horrible... prepare to go through major hassles as yuou use their website to get info and using their chat, email and phone service.. the company should be investigated for consumer fraud(except that the government is already on the take from big business).... good luck
Lucky for them that they are in India.
I would have posted 5 stars if backup/recovery disc(s)would have been part of the package.
To make a long story short this Lenovo laptop is made the old fashioned way :) from quality Chinese part, not junk Chinese parts.
These guys at Data Sales do a beautiful refurbishing job, looks new and their follow up on sales is exceptional my T60 is a dream machine.
Two of those times the technicians stated "no problem found."
Well in a way they are telling the truth but in another they are lying.
it was a gift for my niece... she did not get it until her birthday in March... it would not boot up the 4th time she went to start it.
This shows their quality and traits, which is rare to find in business today.
But laugh only in the spirit of freedom from lugging around giant notebooks.
Bought for my 7 year old daughter to learn to type and play her CD-ROM games and she loves it -- and I do not have to worry about her going onto the internet and finding inappropriate websites.
She loves her macbook, calls him Pizza and takes him everywhere.
However, (as maybe is typical for Dell computers), there is a huge EMF that is puts out; horrible for health ([...]).
No reply (after some days now).
es un producto muy bueno cumple todas las necesidades que una persona tiene, y para hacer las tareas del colegio es excelente
LA COMPRE CON DUDAS PERO EN VERDAD SUPERO MIS ESPECTATIVAS, FUNCIONA PERFECTAMENTE SEGUN SU CAPACIDAD, VINO CON WINDOWS Xp Y OFFICE LISTA PARA USAR.
this computer is good for a nine year old to do his homework.
It was just more cost effective for me (time and money) to simply order one from a local company.
Dell Latitude D610-1.73 Laptop Wireless Computer (Refurbished)Good luck to all the others who got one there.
In 3 days I was using that exact system (not a substitute).
Mrs. Wendell (Jean)  Larson
:)
Yo compre esta laptop hace 3 meses principalmente por el precio y porque la configuracion me parecio no tan baja ya que la queria para pequeos trabajos  y para ver una que otra foto y videos, pero no para juegos ni programas pesados..... ya habia escuchado acerca del win vista de que consume muchos recursos y eso es correcto, acer 3100 es muy lenta para abrir programas simples como exel o ver alguna foto o video o simplemente para iniciar vista puede resultar penoso tener que esperar tanto, asi que preferi un tiempo usar mas mi pc de escritorio para cosas rapidas, adquiri una memoria ddr2 1gb por 25 dolarucosy ahora esta maquina va de maravilla es muy rapida y tengo rato que no uso la pc de escritorio porque ahora si da gusto trabajar en ella.. que les cuesta a los mendigos fabricantes cobrarnos esos 25 dolarucos para tener un equipo con un desempeo bastante bueno y no mandarla con tristes 512 megas que no levantan al windows vista junto con el norton .. Por otro lado la pila tiene muy poca duracion como de 1 hora.
The overheating is also affecting RAM (could not save a document one time and had to save it on to Google documents and re-start); and start-up (computer refused to start up several times one day) -- so it makes me think this is some sort of a heat issue -- faulty temperature sensor?
Then this year I decided to try and get a refurbished version as I already bought a refurbished Ibook G4 for my mother earlier in January 2012 which works wonderfully for her.
Although the seller I bought this from had 100% positive reviews, I was thinking I might end up being that one person who has a problem with them, especially since the shipping was not as fast as it was described by many(came day before the last day it was estimated to arrive).
BTW Sony you can also give MS a high five for letting me down (you allowed them to respresent your product).
What are the "cons" ?..
..).
10 days later (not the "48 business hours" promised) I got a reply.
Their repair center is (apparently) incompetent.
Their warranty does NOT guarantee a computer that will EVER work -- only endless repair attempts.
It is about 1 year and 1 month since I bought it (from Circuit City), so of course the warranty has expired.
3 times within the first year (under warranty) and once after warranty.
The product I am reviewing is an X61 with T7100 (1.8GHz core 2 duo) and 1GB memory.
I have previously used Dell inspirons and latitudes, actually currently owning a latitude D620 with T7200 (2GHz core 2 duo) and 2GB of memory.
(it turned out to cost me 960 in total).
However getting it was another story - new Lenovo owners are going to destroy an excellent brand, if they continue to treat their customers like they treated me.
However, my first purchase from lenovo (X61) ended up with a LCD display with dead pixels.
The perfect gift for a Son in College.
I should send tnem an invoice ;)).
great pre-shopping info helped a lot to decide (thru sony site).
After having the laptop for only two (2) days, the unit could not be powered up due to unknown reasons.
I recommend both the product & company (gracetechnology2).
It comes with 1 gig but you can add 4 gigs (2 sticks of 2 gigs)of PC2 5300 memory for about $45.
The laptop comes with a Intel Core-Duo T2450 which was a decent processor at the time but you can actually "upgrade" the chip to a Core 2 Duo T5200 (Socket M) without a bios update and a used chip will only run about $10.
I pointed out that the machine had not suffered physical damage(not dropped or dented) but they said that "sometimes this just happens" and it is not covered under the warranty.
Wroks great for 120$ , first one was lost by UPS, , but the company (Gracetechnology2) sent another one when they found out, total process took about 5 weeks.
Exactly 12 months and 2 days later bad things started to occur.
I easily watched them at home and when traveling (the first tear when the battery worked).
La laptop estaba en las condiciones que el vendedor habia estipulado, estoy muy satisfecho con la misma.
It has the basics though, Solitaire (20 different kinds) and a really neat hangman game.
I entered the encryption key (26 characters) and connected just fine.
They are Great for Web, Word processing (writing reports) putting up a power point, and fit in almost any small case as they are only 12" screen.
This one I am writing this review on has an 80GB HDD, a dual layer DVD (I may change it to a Btu-ray) It has a dual core 1.2GB CPU and 2GB RAM.
Mit Akku luft es gerade mal eine Stunde, was ich in Anbetracht der enormen Leistung von CPU (Desktop CPU) und GraKa sogar als sehr gut empfinde.
[ASIN:B0015D8OPO Dell Latitude D610 1730MHz 1024MB 40GB CDRW/DVD 14.1" Notebook (1.73GHz Pentium M 740 1GB RAM 40GB HDD DVD/CD-RW Combo XP Pro)]]
Item arrived quickly(1wk) and well packaged from shipper
Things seemed normal until the warranty ran out in Dec, called with my issue that arose 3 weeks later, telephone number bot working, got through to sales (aargh!)
My new MacBook Pro 15" (feb 2011) arrived in perfect condition in a sealed box.
This new line is a HUGE leap in performance, both in processor (quad core vs dual core) as well as graphics (discreet).
RAM hungry programs that I would really never run at the same time (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Indesign) now happily run along side each other.
Bought this as a late Christmas/off-to-graduate-school present for son, who insisted on waiting until the newest model came out.
com and downloading the right ones (you can type your computer code in and find them asap), I was soon back in business.
I got a bunch of discounts when I bought it (i. e. corporate and thanksgiving discount), and I got it for around $570 brand new.
!, bear in mind this is After i prodcued an original invoice, clearly showing my name, store (has a website and all), date, serial number, and all!5 - I ultimatley had the motherboard installed at an individual store... i didnt waste any more time with the geniuses at Dell, but they certainly made my next purchase decision much easier...
I bought this computer a little more then a year ago (1yr 2months).
(For me always the worst time.)
The TZ is my third Sony ultraportable spanning 6 years (TR, TX, and now TZ) and by far the best that Sony has produced to date.
Looking at error message (blue scren on boot) I try to replace memory.
Then they replaced some of the hardware (CPU & Hard drive) and returned it without reinstalling the operating system or any software.
Although in the photo they paint them pink, one arrived red color and without the texture from crocodile skin.
Also the computer runs very hot when watching a movie, running multiple programs, or just blocking the vents(very easy to do).
You have to look at the RAM, the front side bus (fsb) and the type of chip for starters.
This laptop works flawlessly with my D-Link DIR-655 wireless router (and was a piece of cake to configure with Network Magic; a free version included with the router).
It is less thanone year old and five key tops are off (oddly constructed not fixable) keys areoff due to normal student usage (college papers and business applications)The mouse pad is not ideally centered and the left side (as you sit at your keyboard) is a real pain; easy to turn on and off things when one does not intend to.
He downloads music and plays games.
Got it for my son and he uses it for all his social network and music downloading needs.
Purchased this lap top for my younger son (12) to do homework and play games.
I brought this for my 13 year old son and he loves i just wish it had a web cam so now I half to order him a web cam
Despite its age, my son loves his
I tried playing "candy crush" on it and the graphic keeps on flashing.2.
Nothing special (besides tablets) has been developed to justify a new purchase.
He plays his online kiddies game and his mom watches her soap on it.
The hard drive failed and needs to be replaced :-(
se siente un aire calinete por los lados,pero continua por mas de 9 horas con el mismo perfomancey el processador es super veloz y pero le baja a windows vista experience program 5 points 5.0 very goodsimplemente esta laptop es mejor que la asus G71 con 6 ram nvidia 130 con 1 G, si le cambias el processador al nuevo de 2.6 seconvierte a 2.8 con el turbo y vuela bajito.
I have filed a complaint against MSI with Consumer Affairs based on them knowingly providing false information (PowerXpress support) and for knowingly withholding crucial information which could affect the decision to purchase (graphics card speeds).
Not perfect... the power supply cord (which works) had ripped insulation, but this is an easy fix.
According to numerous blogs, there is a problem with the NVidia chip (not replaceable as it is integrated into the mother board).
The Toshiba Computer (Refurbished)with the following features: A. Super Fast WiFi; B.
Al principio pens que el tamao era muy grande, pero al compararla con una de 15,1 pulgadas, me decid por la HP X16-1040us.
Todo funciona de acuerdo a las especificaciones que tiene.
Es bastante rpida y lo que ms me gust es el lector de huellas digitales, no he vuelto a digitar una clave ms, con una actualizacin del software incluso puedes aadirle seguridad a los archivos.
Personalmente me gusta el teclado en espaol, pero con el teclado en ingls no hay problema con los acentos y la "".
La pantalla tiene mucho brillo y se ve bien sin importar el medioambiente donde la uses.
Una preciosa laptop exclusiva , olvidate de las DV5 o DV6000 que todo el mundo tiene!Quieres poder en una laptop!
olvidate de las MacBook que son para Mujertcitas , son bonitas pero nada mas , HP Rules!Procesador de 2.26 ghz de la mano con 4gigas de Ram es exactamente el mismo poder que obtendras de procesadores de hasta 2.8ghz.
Tarjeta Nvidia de 512 megas dedicados, para jugar WOW, Diablo 3, starcraft 2 y Crysis (el ultimo solo para lucirte)Bluetooth para usar tus Audifonos y Celular sin cables y transferir rapido archivos.
probe una Sony Vaio FW en fuerza de volumen y esta laptop se la come viva a la Vaio , enzima tiene Subwofer!En lo personal no necesito blueray , pienso comprar un play3 y verlo en una pantalla gigante, total cualquier pelicula que quiera ver  me la bajo gratis.720p de resolucion , lo mismo no me interesa 1080p se ve muy chikito XDEsta laptop tiene todo lo q busko y necesitoEXCELENTE!
Fallout 3(at the lowest settings) also plays.
The first one I got in 1989 and it still works (thus, I trust their products).
I can live with this, as I uninstalled most of it, opting for competing products (such as the virus scanning software, firewall, etc).
Just be sure to turn off the disorienting Aero mouse pointer theme (leave the rest of Aero turned on) and update all software (including third party products such as Adobe Reader).
The partition used for One Key backup is too small to create an initial backup image out of the box at max compresson(by six gigs, firefox was the only thing added).
I bought it when it first came out and paid a premium price (over one thousand dollars).
3GB of memory standard, expandable to 4GB, that is dedicated to applications with an additional 512MB built-in dedicated (not shared) for graphics.
UPDATE (8/8/2011; 2/29/12): Still a great laptop!
Realmente impresionante, he tenido varios modelos Toshiba a travez del tiempo, cada uno en su momento han sido buenos, pero esta es la mejor, rapida, generosa en caracteristicas y sobre todo confiable como todo modelo Tecra.
Lo mejor es el "Upgrade" a XP, funciona perfecto con todos sus drivers y aplicaciones para el modelo.
Fortunately, Vista64  can run most Win XP software, but I found a number of applications which have trouble (Adobe CS2, Microsoft Office XP, Chem3D) .
The Vista performance measurement yields 5.4 (Processor), 5.8 (gaming) and 5.9 (all other aspects).
All my scientific programs run (Gaussian, Mopac, MathScriptor, etc.)
One came with the computer (Alone in the Dark) and one I had (Grand Theft Auto IV).
Had a t500 years ago that I wrecked (spill) and got a Thinkpad e520 to replace it, not nearly the quality of the t500.
"This is a nice neighborhood; what school district is it in?"
While this laptop is advertised as a business laptop, the BIOS is crippled, and does not allow for the enabling of Hardware Virtualization (what Intel calls VT).
(The rest of the laptop is amazing, but that one feature is a deal breaker)
: )
I bought this laptop back on March 2009 and throw in 8GB (crucial memory).
Bit shameful, on the part of the manager who got to live by his MS Excel spreadsheet that he has sworn his graduation with.
The Size is great to work with a program at the same time, to watch a BD movie, and the performace has been great so far (2 months).
I bought my daughter a Sony Vaio VGN-CS215J in April of 2009 as a graduation gift, to take to college the following fall.
They said they even called and got a "confirmation" that thats what happened?
i will add that the non-sony box gave the impression i was being sent a clone or a refurbished item which they deny but who knows....) and finally it broke down miserably and which took a computer technitian over 24 hours of intense labor to get running again with 7 this time as it would not take Vista.
Antes de este portatil, tenia otra Vaio, y siempre he estado muy conforme con el producto.
Quiza lo unico es que el brillo de la pantalla de mi modelo anterior era mejor que el de este portatil.
Revised this review after one year:  The computer went back to the BackStage (Sony Repair) 3 times already.
The mother board failed earlier this year.
Las caractersticas coinciden con las especificadas, excepto que no trae la tarjeta grfica ATI sino la integrada de Intel.
Por lo dems tiene una perfecta pantalla, el teclado es suave, muy facil de configurar.
Aun no pruebo el bluray pero las pelculas en DVD se ven impresionantes (el audio puede mejorar con unos parlantes externos).
The recall is due to the recently discovered error on the included Intel 6-Series "Cougar Point" chipset.
I use it for Work (Web Development) and Home (Playing CSS and other Steam Apps).
Item being reviewedAcer Aspire AS4730-4947 14.1" Notebook (2.16GHz Dual Core T3400 3GB RAM 250GB HDD DL DVD-RW Vista Home Premium)
Try to reach the seller never answer,,what a waste of money an time ,thanks for nothing .
My experience includes: the white plastic arms under the keys that hold the keys in place begin to decompose or something like that and start crumbling and break into many little pieces.
In just minutes, the white plastic arms suddenly crumbled apart and the keys just started falling off.
There is currently a laww sewt (spelling to avoid deletion) which was won against nvidia, but really, this is still an hp problem.
Take the HP challenge: find someone who was had an HP laptop that has lasted over the years and stood the test of time.
Muy buenos productos ,llegaron  en los tiempos indicados y los productos son de muy buena calidadGracias AMAZON , por cumplir y por ser nuestro proveedor de confianza gracias y hasta la proxima compra.
64bit operating system was a must with proven Vista and the best keyboard on laptops (think Apple) make this system a desktop replacement (for everyone except the extreme gamer).
: Students, Office Workers.
Original CPU T6400 (2GHz) scored 5.5.
An upgrade to T9300 (2.5GHz + 6MB cache, ~$60) will boost it to 6.1 and make this machine fly like anew i5.
Sin duda alguna esta es una de las mejores computadoras, una exelente condicion por un exelente precio.
(If you need a laptop in first place :) ).
Tengo dos semanas de usar este equipo y definitivamente lo recomiendo, tiene un excelente precio y las prestaciones y rendimiento son ideales.
It facilitated conversation,and worked as a visual aid.
Who came up with a dumb idea to leave out the function key row?
org software and the programs I use (writer and presentation are they are compatible with word and powerpoint thus far).
got this in the mail for my brother, for his graduation.
This product was purchased as a high school graduation gift for a grandddaughter who will enter college in the fall.
All the games (except Crysis) run smoothly on medium settings at the native screen resolution.
So, the cables that are most likely to be connected (and the thickest ones) are on the back and do not get in the way.
It was pretty good but a bit expensive and on the verge of being outdated and that was in 2009 (Intel Core2Duo T6500) by the new wave of intel and amd processors.
This laptop did not work ( the sistem would not start) had to be returned for a full refund from amazon after 5 days.
After all that (literally tens of hours of run around from customer support), it turned out that the problem was a one-line glitch in the Dell drivers that could have been solved in about 30 seconds if anyone at Dell support had known what they were talking about.
Very stable, stylish (Mac style) and fast.
Lightness, thinness and silence (with the SSD) make a surprising difference.
Or at age 65 U can find anold version MacBook ( upgradable and easy).
My wife had an older MacBook (first Intel processor) and she loved it.
The newer battery (a few years old) had started "growing", so I taped it together with clear packing tape.
That worked well enough, but was awkward on hard surfaces (laptop teetered) and became uncomfortable on her lap the more it separated from the casing.
:)The description said it came with the latest software, but when it arrived it had an older version of iLife.
Even this older version works very well (running MacOS Lion).
;)
It would randomly shut down (and I mean suddenly the machines dies) and therefore losing lal my work.
I needed another laptop and went back to my usual Gateway - I LOVE them and have always bought Gateways since I have been buying computers (13+ years).
I bought this machine for $350 at the "brick and mortar" store "Micro Center" ([...]).
This model strikes me as being the high end Satellite in terms of all of the features offered (including blue tooth).
Toshiba support offers only to "power cycle".
Cons; one of the keys on the keyboard, the "R" pops off time to time.
Charles Hall, author ofA Chronicle of Endylmyr: The Witches of Endylmyr
He gets a supervised hour a day on it unless his behavior is off track.
funciona al 100, la bateria no da problemas  y el windoes es (Y)
Going to donate it to a school for their use.
In had promised my niece a pink laptop for her birthday if she maintained her grades in school.
:)
Anything in the business world involves black and white.
After trying to order one of these two times.
Design needs improvement, January 19, 2010By  D. D. Umstot "teka3" (Seattle, WA USA) - See all my reviewsI bought this computer thinking it would offer hi-def capability, but it does not.
Got it on sale with a rebate and a FREE HP printer (FREE with rebate) AND a laptop bag on sale, all in all it was a good buy for the product and price (bought at the "S" office supply store, 7 letter name.
Did not buy at Amazon this time, but a major office supply store (because of the sale and rebates), as stated earlier, got a FREE printer (bought printer, sent in rebate paperwork and received cheque for the amount of the printer).
Although I did nothing to damage it, the screen developed a growing "tear" behind the protective outer layer.
A friend purchased the same one for his brother and it too has terrible audio recording.
dealing with the hp "total care" incompetents is a nightmare.
one word of advice; total care means "NO CARE".
For a person who never turned-on a computer in her life, (complete novice) she is very happy with the ease of operation.
They (HP) prepare you to utilize all of their Spyware; Adware and Malware programs built/installed into the operating software.
No firewire port (for this model).
windows media center periodically stops working with message ( windows media center crashed)3. hp advisor keeps crashing on startup
It appears the video connector on the board (where the cable plugs in) is at fault.
We need the LCD board (not invertor) replaced, but finding that individual part separate from the LCD is nearly impossible.
Needless to say my three children are jealous (all Acer users) and now want an HP.
My wife types long documents in MS Office (which opens very quickly nicely and with no problems ) Internet, mail etc etc - all works fine.
Play video files up to 14gb+ mkv format BlueRay files (Star Trek 1008p) with perfect playback.
(get alot of glare from light).
(They are also getting involved with electronic e-readers).
I got it back Monday and I had problems again (freezing up) and I have to shut it down manually, I will try for another few days and see.
(1 gig or better) The HDMI interface works great for connecting your HDTV to play dvd media and web content.
I went shopping at a local Electronics retailer and stumbled upon this machine which is lesser known in the Southern US, however I have now learned they are the 3rd largest seller of laptop computers in the world and have won numerous awards.
Other bonuses include an HDMI port, HD-level graphics, and a Super-Multi Drive (all formats, including Blu-Ray).
Start time would take a good 15 minutes (timed).
(I know because it would remain in BIOS set up.)
He said they would send me a confirmation e-mail and a sticker (not even a box).
Got it for my wife because she had issues with her 2 year old 15" laptop (slow booting, heavy, bulky).
When typing, she frequently gets "strange results" when she activates one or the other with the heal of her hand.
(half way from Atlanta to LAX which was unacceptable.)
Cons: No blueray(not an issue for me).
really no body like sony (if it made in China)
(c) Big BEWARE.
filesand then both back button and internet options under toolsgets RE-Enabled (Greyed Out) when it fails.
Also the first time I did a back up to Media CD (using DVD Drive)the Sony crashed and killed my DVD drivers and I had to uninstallall dvd drivers and reinstall them.
After having it for about a year it began to shut down unexpectedly.
Called again and spoke to Woo - no help at all.
Toshiba Satellite T135-S1305 TruBrite 13.3" Ultrathin Laptop (Black)
It is a true thin and light ultra-portable laptop (at less than 4.6 lbs).
Buy a original bluetooth chip from Ebay - It comes as a kit with bluetooth chip, 8pin wire and a screw to secure it inside.
fast computer because of the core 2 duo and 2 gigs of ram ,the only problem is the 80 gigs of memory ( its just not enough)
I have had a lot of HPs and I (and my young children) have been very hard on my laptops.
To make a long story short, the computer was returned to HP who then indicated that they regarding the loose molding as physical damage and not covered.
I know since I use to work with HP (EDS) people.
The N wireless card is fast and furious on the N+ Router (Belkin).
Only annoying thing is you have to make your own recovery disks (3 dvd blank disks you have to prepare).
It is an easy-to-use notebookIntel Pentium Dual Core T3400(The return of Pentium) good CPU with double Core processor.
(However see the spacebar con listed below.)
There is also an unofficial fix for it (somewhat involved, and which users may not feel comfortable doing).
Sent #2 son off to college with this and he loves it.
Finally learned there was nothing that could be done except to "not accepte" the unwanted additdional Acer and to send it back.
I download movies off the internet for a few bucks (no optical drive -- DVDs are so 2007) and watch them on the plane.
Fast enough, smart enough, and plenty of storage (320GB).
Amazon does set low expectations and tries to beat it :)Now to the product itself - the quick setup guide said it will take 30 minutes to set it up.
Al comienzo todo bien, pero con el tiempo se han ido presentado problemas.
Primero de hardware: las patitas de abajo se salieron y la pantalla se fue soltando de la base, lo que la dej menos firme.
Pero los problemas en realidad no son de hardware.
De hecho, es una mquina bastante robusta: en dos oportunidades se me cay a un piso de baldosa y el dao fue mnimo.
Y el touchpad funciona impecablemente, contradiciendo las reseas que lo critican.
not a top of the line laptop, but my 15 yr old needed one for school and for playing his games.
My daughter, (a college student in her last semester), opened it, turned it on, and booted up and connected to her wireless internet, and was doing her homework in less than 10 minutes.
(Even her sisters  $1500.00 one she had used this summer.)
He caught up with all his school work and got a B in the computer class that he was failing.
Tardo demasiado en ser enviado, llego en mal estado (sucia, raspaduras), la laptop no trae el disco duro, ademas no trajo ni el adaptador para cargar la batera de la lap, no trajo ningn accesorio solo la laptop, no viene con windows 7, ella usa es XP, no concuerda con la descripcin del productor que el vendedor coloca, ademas que tuve que pagar servicio tcnico para acomodar detalles tcnicos no solo en cuanto a la ausencia del hard drive si no tambin de problemas con el software... mi recomendacin es que no se si a todos los compradores les paso lo mismo pero tomen en cuenta mi caso y que ya estn advertidos...
(Know your seller)
Compr este equipo y en mi opinin es una porttil que reune buenas caractersticas.
Por ejemplo, la pantalla de 16 pulgadas se ve excelente, la tarjeta grfica es de lo mejor.
Con ella he podido correr juegos que requieren muchos recursos de memoria y video y los juego sin ninguna novedad.
Con respecto al procesador, lo considero bastante rpido, la capacidad del disco duro, apropiada.
Es diseo y el acabado es elegante si no se ensucia, el peso es regular, no calienta mucho pero si no quieres que se caliente, puedes usar las bases de ventiladores externos de esos que venden en las tiendas de computacin.
Lo nico malo es que el acabado del case y del teclado hace que se marquen mucho con las huellas de los dedos y manos.
Otra cosa buena de este equipo es que trae incorporado el teclado numrico como en las desktop, lo cual facilita las operaciones matemticas, por ejemplo.
En resumen, recomiendo esta laptop por su precio, por sus caractersticas y por el respaldo de la marca.
Tengo apenas 5 meses con la computadora y ya se dao.
En un momento sube el logo de Toshiba y ahi se queda.
Several crash in lieu of a screen saver-- students come in for a class, you teach for an hour and return to the computer to complete you work and, Voila!, the lover blue screened fatal error message.
After a year of the worst abuse: class, clinic, kids, pets, and searing heat can dish out it still works and looks fine.
(unless you are all thumbs).
Still going strong, after being used on a daily basis, both at home and at school.
I have a A6000-030US (just a variation with a Blu-ray combo drive, and NVIDIA graphic card, HDMI).
Mine does not have HDMI (does this one have it?).
They can do nothing for the computer except a reset (which they claim will fix the sound tpo).
I hope sony in able to fix it (sent it back today), I do not want to have to research another laptop.
It comes with Vaio Movie Story (a very easy to use movie creation tool).
I can now edit my AVCHD video files (from my Sony camcorder) and create beautiful home movies.
Still using the 320GB HDD in an enclosure as an external HDDAcomdata Tango USB 2.0/eSATA 2.5-Inch SATA Hard Drive Enclosure TNGXXXUSE-BLU (Blue).
Then after trying to send the system in to get the repairs done with the RMA# I found out that Asus will not honor the "free two way overnight shipping" included with the warrant.
even minecraft runs at 50-70 except in jungles (10-20 fps).
VERRRRRRRRRRRRRRY SLOW - STUPID CONFIGURATION - CHEAPEST CRAP PARTS - NO PORTS - FIELD SUPPORT ARE MORONS AND IT TOOK 6 DAYS TO EXPLAIN TO INDIA WHAT THEY COULDNT FIGURE OUT THEMSELVES - OVERPRICED - LIKE I SAID DO YOUR SELF A FAVOR AND GRAB A BAG
She needed her own computer for photos editing and homework.
At first he thought there were issues, but with the help of his tech savy friend he was able to update the operating system and all is well for what he wants it for.... it was affordable and received when promised.
I COULD CANCEL THE SECOND LAP TOP (THANKS GOD).
Possibly in an effect to show how "great" everything looks.
NOPE---tonight it began making a loud noise---then a blue error screen quickly disappeared to a black screen "No operating system found" message.
Beautiful looking, and worked fine for about a month, before starting with "No Operating System Found" messages.
Sony sent field service to replace hard drive (500 GB).
Sec /MCTS/MCITP Certified AdminAcer Aspire 15.6" Notebook Computer - Black (AS5517-1127)
"There is no fear where love exists.
Rather, perfect love banishes fear, for fear involves punishment, and the person who lives in fear has not been perfected in love."
Instead of another laptop, we did a "180" and got an iMac which she loves.
Again this was a gift to our Grandson for an addition to his music career.
6 GIG RAM paired with the 2.5 Gz Duel Core Processsor is powerful enough to handle any and all of my programs, exe ( virus scan while playing Battlefield Bad Company 2 with graphics on the highest setting ).
There is random problems with the media smart touch controller at the top (treb/bass, volume, wireless, and play controls).
I have had a Laptop since Adam was wearing short pants, this is the first one to ever die in the mainboard (first HP also) and some of the others from better companies are kicking on a decade later.
I watch movies , download stream music, make homework with MS office, edit homemade videos with WMovie Maker, I use the most efective antivirus, It runs warm, never hot (even outside the house), I recommend you use an external HDD for those programs or information  you can use for a short period of time (a day or two), even should try to erase the information, not only delete.
COM ( I hope it works fine 3 years or more).
mine never got to critical temps (105C Tjmax).
and i put new/better thermal grease (all name brands use crappy thermal compound).
last note: intel cpu (i5) runs hotter than amd.
It died (completely unbootable, hardware failure) under warranty.
HP Pavilion DV4-2161NR 14.1-Inch Laptop (Digital Plaid)
would you to send in the sofware with spanish version?HP Pavilion DV4-2161NR 14.1-Inch Laptop (Digital Plaid)
HP Pavilion DV4-2161NR 14.1-Inch Laptop (Digital Plaid)
Revisando y analizando la laptop he constatado de que su versatilidad rapidez buenos colores, son unas de las caracteristicas mas resaltantes, pero lo unico que no me ha gustado es su poca autonomia la bateria si llega a las 4 horas es realmente una proeza porque desde que adquiri el producto la energia se va muy rapido.
Grandes funciones no slo de entretenimiento, sino para aspectos de trabajo, el teclado alfanumrico incorporado, me favorece de sobremanera para la elaboracin de controles de notas, cuentas, entre otros.
Asimismo, la resolucin de la pantalla es muy buena, el Wifi permite captar seales a mediana distancia, como aspecto a mejorar por parte de la prestigiosa compaa HP es la durabilidad de la batera, en mi caso, al realizar uso diario de la computadora, pude evidenciar que ojal durar unas 3 horas la batera, pero esto es algo dificil de lograr.
Por todo lo dems, sin duda comprar los modelos ms recientes de las versiones DV6.
Only concern I have is the power cord which sticks out like a long rod when it is charging, and if someone happen to put their hand on it (say a baby or happens by mistake) the design is vulnerable to bend therey causing it to not fit in the charging slot, or not able to make contact with the charging pin.
Like a long lost puppy this lapdog looked like it had been drug behind a truck, left out in the rain and never put away.
Yes ole Lucky was missing some parts (no CD drive) and the ears(corners) were clipped.
Some of the reviewers are happy with their "TOUGHBOOK".
It has now been nearly two weeks since UPS confirmed the returned "TOUGHBOOK" to the vendor (Tiger Direct) and my account has yet to be credited.
(I pray often for everyone at the AMEX dispute department).
(this computer replaced an HP netbook which died within 1 year, which was then fixed by HP, but then died again.)
Last week it decided that it did not want to boot up any longer (year 2.5).
Bought for an "extra" for games & grandchildren and travel.
The old Dell Lattitude is a nice  retrofit in to a Intel Core Duo processor (from a Celeron) and came pre-installed with WinXp.
Tried to get an answer and got no reply&#128532;
I ordered a computer and the company sent me a different one, they did not install window 7 as they said they were going to (The copy of windows 7 they sent was a pirated copy and did not work).
I am a full time Photo student at AIP, and got this computer for Christmas (It was ordered by a different account, obviously).
Quake wars, enemy territory and Fallout 3, no lag, everything at high.
"UPDATED" To restate the 2 usb ports, i have found out that the (E-Sata can be used as a 2.0 USB PORT).
For now my wife is delighted, and most married gents quickly learn "a happy wife is a happy life".
Como siempre Gateway lanza al mercado productos novedosos y de buen desemo.
El Gateway NV5937u es un equipo de buen diseo, su procesador core i3 y su memoria de 4Gb es una combinacin perfecta para aplicaciones del dia a dia.
Su pantalla LED ofrece una adecuada definicin de imagen y su teclado es amplio para personas con dedos gruesos.
Para aquellos usarios habituales del teclado numerico, es una falla que el punto "."
no este ubicado donde normalmente lo tienen los teclados numericos estandar, lo que radica en algunas molestias para trabajos con componente numericos.
La bateria tiene una adecuada duracin, es liviano y el color es bien llamativo y agradable.
Les recomiendo a quienes deseen comprar un buen portatil, que se inclinen por Gateway, uno de los mejores fabricantes de Computadores.
Por el precio que pagas esta es la mejor opcin para adquirir una laptop, el tamao es su ventaja/desventaja ya que apenas y entra en mi mochila sin embargo te acostumbras en 2 minutos a la pantalla de 17" (ya no te dan ganas de trabajar en otra laptop) 5 estrellas para esta computadora!
Tab bar too narrow, keep missing itThe raised key board locaters (on F and J Keys) are too hard to find.
Too much advertising software (guess all manufactures are like that)As others have stated, cord keeps falling out.
4) During video games there will be a line that goes across the screen and breaks up the graphics for a split second during cinematic, but frequently and in different locations-just odd.
Estoy totalmente satisfecho con el producto, verdaderamente es lo que esperaba en trminos de rendimientos, hasta el momento que la estoy usando no me ha dado ninguna molestia.
El color de la porttil, realmente es bonito, es un caf muy oscuro, no como el de las fotos de amazon.
Lo nico que deseara, es que soportara una resolucin mayor en la pantalla, pues es una pantalla grande (16"), pero la resolucin es relativamente baja (1366x768).
Tiene todo lo que puede pedir y mucho ms. Pros:-precio-desempeo y velocidad-usb 3.0-hdmi-core i7 de 4 ncleos y 2 threads por ncleo, en windows aparecen 8 procesadores.-funciona relativamente fra, solo sale aire caliente cerca del conector del adaptador A/C.-wifi n, bluetooth-express gate de verdad que arranca en menos de 8 segundos.
Contras:-resolucin de pantalla-software basura instalado ocupa alrededor de 1.25gb de ram con solo encenderla-la version x1, tiene apenas 320gb de disco duro, para una porttil de estas caractersticas, resulta insuficiente, pero no es nada que no pueda arreglar un disco duro externo.
ASUS N61JQ-X1 16-Inch Versatile Entertainment Laptop (Dark Brown)
I bought a 3 year warranty from squaretrade for just 80$ (3 years).
Cons: The only thing I have found (like everybody else) is the sound system.
This laptop comes with 2 X 320GB (7200rpm) hard drives not one 640GB (5400rpm) hard drive.
However, when looking at any computer, realize what their extended warrenty plan covers, if it is fixed locally, and what you truly receive if something goes wrong and what outside supplier (refurb machine).
Hopefully, you get yours in as great a shape as mine was and as timely (only 2 days via super-saver).
Ran Crysis... ran Dragon Age Origins ran oblivion.
ASUS N71JQ-X1 17.3-Inch Versatile Entertainment Laptop (Dark Brown)
ASUS N71JQ-X1 17.3-Inch Versatile Entertainment Laptop (Dark Brown)
He comprado Laptop ASUS N71Jq el 27 de octubre de 2010,ahora a principios de octubre de 2011 SE APAGA SOLA,le compre un cooler pensando en recalentamiento y siempre se apaga, ESTAS LAPTOP NO SIRVEN, AMIGOS SI QUIEREN COMPRAR LAPTOP NO COMPREN ASUS, me comunique con la ASUS y me dicen que se comunicaran conmigo a mas tardar en 48 horas, pero mientras tanto la informacion que tengo en ella no la puedo procesar.
it looked like it was in war, then they threw paint on it.
Fast enough ( but not super speedy).
Came in a large box ( like a laptop normally would), but just had cardboard to hold in place and skrink wrap to prevent scratching.
No protection at all (aside of the plastic bag on the outside incase it rained).
I have a friend that repairs computers for a living so I gave it to her and she ran all her tests and found out that the motherboard is bad.
;)
:)
After about the first month of owning it I let my husband use it to check his football information online in the basement while he was watching a game and he stole it from me.
It has become his laptop and he loves it.
This is my third "Z-series" Sony Vaio (I previously owned a VGN-SZ750N which replaced an earlier VGN-SZ680N).
In addition the OS is only 32-bit Windows 7 - thereby throwing away 1/2 gig of the 4 gig memory (should have been configured with the 64-bit version).
Put on a black image full screen, and you see a "rainbow" on the screen -- black is real black only on the rainbow and everywhere else it is gray.
:(Hope to be more lucky next time..
Her three criteria was that the laptop be light (around 5 lbs), be compact with at least a 13" screen, and be powerful enough to handle everyday tasks that she would encounter as a teacher.
The "Genius" people at Apple stores gave us incorrect information, did not comprehend the problems and the only way we solved them was to go to an outside company (INTUIT) who furnished the answers.
Then we taught the information to the "Genius" Apple people.
:)
It has lots of characters that I never used.-touchpad (see the other reviews).
But in general I use mouse for a laptop.-it has a dull look (design).-the biggest problem is the fan; after only few months it attracts dust.
Update: I got blue screen of death from Windows Updates security mess-up; I managed to check disk (chkdsk /r /f) from command prompt in Recovery Repair and it worked well back.
I took it back to the place of purcase (BB) and they refused to take it back or replace, they said I damaged the screen by touching it to hard.
He said the DC jack was broken and not chargeable anymore.
Bought this computer last week after a lot of research.1) Crysis runs at all high setting 4xAA.
Complete the system restore back ups immediately (4hrs.
Well constructed gun metal aluminum (light)2.
This laptop works great for what I do which is studying (why I chose the large display), Internet & email, music, visual studio programming and from time to time I will watch a movie.
Here is some CPUz output from when I first got the laptop up and running:Processors-------------------------------------------------------------------------Number of processors  1Number of threads  4APICs-------------------------------------------------------------------------Processor 0-- Core 0-- Thread 0 0-- Thread 1 1-- Core 2-- Thread 0 4-- Thread 1 5Processors Information-------------------------------------------------------------------------Processor 1  ID = 0Number of cores  2 (max 8)Number of threads 4 (max 16)Name  Intel Core i5Codename  ArrandaleSpecification  Intel(R) Core(TM) i5 CPU  M 430  @ 2.27GHzPackage (platform ID) Socket 1156 LGA (0x4)CPUID  6.5.2Extended CPUID  6.25Core Stepping  C2Technology  32 nmCore Speed  1330.2 MHzMultiplier x FSB 10.0 x 133.0 MHzRated Bus speed  2394.3 MHzStock frequency  2266 MHzInstructions sets MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, EM64T, VT-xL1 Data cache  2 x 32 KBytes, 8-way set associative, 64-byte line sizeL1 Instruction cache 2 x 32 KBytes, 4-way set associative, 64-byte line sizeL2 cache  2 x 256 KBytes, 8-way set associative, 64-byte line sizeL3 cache  3 MBytes, 12-way set associative, 64-byte line sizeFID/VID Control  yesTurbo Mode  supported, enabledMax turbo frequency 2533 MHzMax non-turbo ratio 17xMax turbo ratio  19xMax efficiency ratio 9xMax bus number  63Attached device  PCI device at bus 63, device 2, function 1Chipset-------------------------------------------------------------------------Northbridge  Intel Havendale/Clarkdale Host Bridge rev.
She is not the most gentle child but this fulfills all her computer needs.
:((
The laptop also cames without a part of the equipment (No card reader).
wanted to talk to her supervisor on shippingto them or nyc ...... gets back on line, nyc will pick up, fix it, no charge for a veteran.
When searching for a computer I spent hours on the web scouring Amazon and other sites for the right computer that I could afford with a small budget (I am a college student who has extremely shallow pockets).
I mix music(DJ), produce music, and produce videos on a weekly basis.
Purchased the 15.4" for myself and the 13.3" for my wife who is starting graduate school in the fall.
Bought her the IMac three years ago for Christmas and fell in love with OS X immediately.
He uses this on a daily basis for his schooling and homework.
They both developed problems at the age of about 1 year old.
Fortunately, Apple released an update to Snow Leopard (10.6.4) which solved the problem for most of us.
But even without the SSD and standard memory (4GB), it is the fastest macbook pro ever made by nearly 30%.
This computer may be the dream for youngsters who will make use of all the fancy stuff for film and electronic music editing.
It arrived warped (rocks slightly on a flat surface), has minor scratches and needed complete operating software updates.
My dream list of changes expected to happen in 2011 13" model(1) change HDD to on-board flash storage.
(7) reduced priceupdate (03-10-2011):on Feb 24, 2011, Apple released new macbook pros.
I checked Macbook pro 13" and did a comparison and found the graphics of new model cannot compete with the old models (not as bright, rich color as).
I received it in one day (granted it was from NY to NJ) but it is working fine.
(The 8GB kit will cost just under $100.)
Compre mi Macbook pro de 13" en Diciembre, y haba estado esperando un tiempo prudente antes de dar mi punto de vista sobre esta.
Me decidi por el Modelo 2.4GHz Intel Core 2 Duo, en vez del 2.66GHz porque lei unos cuantos reviews de personas que decan que era lo mismo, y al final si es lo mismo, porque solo cambia el disco duro y un aumento de velocidad del procesador que no se nota, he estado utilizando programas bien pesados como Autocad 2011, Photoshop, Office, Google Earth, todos al mismo tiempo para ver que tal se comportaba, y me ha sorprendido el manejo de de recursos de memoria que tiene la mac, es como si cuando saliera de un programa lo Hibernara y cuando vuelve nuevamente a iniciarlo sin parpadear, le agregue un Discoduro de Red de 2TB, y resuelto el problema del espacio.
en cuanto a los programas que trae, es impresionante lo que puedes mejorar unas fotos viejas con el Iphoto, sin mencionar el manejo que te da para tus fotos, y creaciones de albums, el Imovie es otra de las chuleras que te haran saber el porque tu dinero esta bien invertido en una Macbook, con este programa puedes crear tus propias pelculas familiares, amateurs, editar el cumpleaos de la abuelita, en fin un sin numero de  funciones mas que todavia no he tenido el tiempo para usarlas todas.
Y solo mencionar de lo bien que quedan los trabajos con el Iwork.
Le Recomiendo este producto a cualquier persona que este pensando en comprarse una Macbook Pro, ya sea para incursionar en lo que es el estilo de vida de Mac, o que solo quiera cambiar de su vieja Mac a una mas nueva.
Ahora tengo 3 Amores, El ultimo de ellos es la Macbook Pro 13".
Espero que este Review le pueda ayudar a futuros compradores, y personas que como yo en mi momento no saben cual es la mejor opcin a tomar.
I had to call Apple 19 times (each time 40 to 75 minutes on the phone), and take it to their store for evaluations, and diagnostics, 5 times.
For my burn thigh which has put a permanent mark on my skin (it happened 7 months ago) they offered me an ITouch 8Gig (you know it is a bit insulating when a company this rich, offer a loyal customer like me, a bottom of their product line as a gift for events like this).
Steve Jobs, probably needs help and donations, and cannot afford a reasonable offers for people that truly are trying to support his baby.
And he is now a true convert.
The first year, I really liked it but after that (of course after the warranty expired) it all went down hill.
Go ahead all you Apple people spend 1000 dollars on a core duo proc mac (which i was using before this, but with windows 7 installed, after a friend fried it i fixed it and kept it).
Sold my old black macbook (bootcamp windows 7 because osx blows) for 450 dollars (cuz mac cult followers will spend anything on a 2006 black original).
Before buying this computer look over the reviews and check to see how long any of them have had their computers up and running, I bet the vast majority were entranced (as I was) by initial impressions and would change their words should they be asked to re-evaluate.
Before buying this computer look over the reviews and check to see how long any of them have had their computers up and running, I bet the vast majority were entranced (as I was) by initial impressions and would change their words should they be asked to re-evaluate.
From Wikipedia: "On April 15, 2010, Office 2010 was released to manufacturing, with those Volume Licensing customers who have Software Assurance being able to download the software from April 27, 2010.
Office 2010 marks the debut of free online versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote, which work in popular web browsers (Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Safari, but not Opera).
(When playing World of Warcraft, I had to lower all the graphics options in order to have a decent frame rate.)
Amazon said we had a thirty day period to return when we called, it was one day past the return period!So, we sent this piece of garbage to MSI and paid the postage ($25).
This wiped out model#, serial number from the BIOS.
I do not know who the product manager is but he did not do his job when incorporating the Broadcom 4313 adapter into this fine notebook.
My mom who uses this periodically (five days a week for several hours each day) has no issue with it but my son who uses it for long business ventures (12-18 hour days) is already shopping for a new one that will not have cooling issues.
Right out of the box this computers performance was mediocre at best mainly due to the vast array of HP programs (gimmicks)that come pre-installed.
After about three months of ownership this HP product really started showing its evil and ugly face.
I am counting the days that it takes for her to finally loose her mind and throw it in the garbage.
Because this laptop can play most of the PC games that I play (Just finished playing call of duty 4 Modern warfare).
Tuve una buena experiencia al comprar esta compu-porttil, las descripciones son justo como la publicacin, hasta el momento funciona perfectamente.
This is (was) my fifth HP.......... the last one crashed after a "HP generated BIOS update" that crashed my laptops motherboard.
The "aluminized" skin is textured and oily finger-prints do not show.
HP has done nothing to fix this problem, and many customers who send in their laptops wait months to get them back, and to find that the problem still persists.
Pros:1) power2) price3) weight (for a 17" model - perfect)4) exteriorCons:1) Weird keyboard layout.
Hint: turn on the numlock (programmatically) and use the keypad2) Heat.
plays most new games on max setting and older games like a beast.
Unfortunate owning this thing has turned into a nightmare.
La nica observacin negativa que tengo es que cuando se le coloca en espera o invernacin y se le va a desbloquear, tiene tiempo lmite para introducir la contrasea.
No s realmente si es un mal funcionamiento de la mquina, sin embargo no ha sido problema.
Hope this helped :)
Acer Aspire TimelineX AS4820T-3697 14-Inch Laptop (Aluminum)
He is a gamer, and needed his own computer.
Obviously outsourced to another country and understanding them is a real challenge.
They only go by a script and have no knowledge of the product.
:c(
it will really disppoint you when you move large files (movies, photos, backups ...) between pcs.
Bought the laptop for work & personal use but after only an hour (seriously) of using it it shut off and would not load back up.
The design its a bulky, need to be more fashion and new style (Black Aluminum its perfect).
Great for a kid that want to play great games and great for high school students for professional and serious gamers I preferred Asus G Series.
Company of Heroes online (the best RTS EVER made, its free and its even better than SC2!)
(Part No #backlit M711P ) google search it.
Dell Support Not very good ( outsourced to India )
Other than a few games she primarily uses it for homework (e. g., Word, PowerPoint, Excel).
While using Word it started "back slashing" for no apparent reason and it will not stop.
What is important to me is that they are honoring their warranty with one call (because we all know sometimes it takes 2 or more calls to get a company to accept a return and that is very frustrating) and providing a free method to return it for repair.
After 3 calls to tech support in India and getting the shipping carton 3 days later guess what?
now ill tell you the pros an cons:pros:slimfaster then i thought for a single core proccesornice keyboardgood led screencons:the trackpad and mouse butttons(al that can be fixed by buyin a wireless mouse)other than that no cons really.
la recomiendo, agil, rapida, trabaja muy bien con varias pantallas abiertas haciendo multitareas simultaneamente, no parece afectarle la carga de trabajo, no pierde velocidad, estoy muy contento con la compra.
Volume:  Went on Toshiba Web Site (Low Volume) their is a a way to correct the problem.
Her friends were even jealous.
Plays Netflix movies very well through the built-in HDMI port  (not hi-def).
My grand daughter loves to play the Disney Games available online and the computer cam as she is three years old.
Have emaild and called - to now avail... the "Y" key keeps popping off and you have to hit the "N" key like 5 times before it prints.
(Bios).
Before buying this computer look over the reviews and check to see how long any of them have had their computers up and running, I bet the vast majority were entranced (as I was) by initial impressions and would change their words should they be asked to re-evaluate.
I am can connect anywhere in the university.- can run heavy aplications (but sometimes system run slow for a little minutes)- play games?
Gave this product to my son for his birthday and high school graduation.
El peso tambien es muy liviana para poder cargar todos los dias.
She had a compaq for five years before.
); and the built quality of the body.
(ASUS and Toshiba have the best ratings)  No major company should allow a such failure rate on their products.
When she got to school in the fall her laptop would not work at Penn State.
Now a second CPU and a fan (since we learned this model gets hot) and still not working.
The AMD triple core processor with 4gb of memory and ATI Graphics (read non-intel)is a rare combination to find, most manufactures slap intel graphics on everything and from past experience this is not a good thing.
Integrated mouse broke 08/22/10HD died 11/12/10 - parts and laptop are out of warrantyReplacement parts have a 90 days warranty.
AWSOME was how she describe her excitement about the product.
HP tech support failed miserably during this process since the HP technician (who had a heavy India English accent) told me that I had to go back to the computer store where I purchased the hard drive and have them fix the system.
It does not make sense: why would a company (HP) which brags that it is a "green" company produce disposable laptops whose users will throw them away into the dumpster when they break and when they learn they are not economical to upgrade or repair.
Thanks seller j-tech :)
After making the mistake of installing McAfee (which caused all sorts of conflicts)and then uninstalling it and restoring the computer, all was great.
Then in the early days of September, a bizarre problem occured where the display starting tiling in two columns miniature images of the desktop.
My 21 year old is very particular about his computers, and he has owned MANY.
I only had to uninstall a couple of things (trial Norton and MS Office)before I had it configured the way I wanted it.
The overall look is unique without being too gaudy (nothing like the Alienware offerings).
Documentation is entirely on a CD (no paper).
Shipping from Amazon was very fast (only 3 days).
The unit provides almost absolute data security by ensuring that the true, valuable corporate asset (the data) remains safely inside the datacenter.
This unit requires an appropriate enterprise backend (generally Citrix XenApp or XenDesktop).
So For about one month after the new hard drive it started to "break down" again.
He sent Open Office ( a knockoff version) of Microsoft office (Which I could of just downloaded).
But, he did make an effort.
They lie to you, you spend countless hours on the phone with them not getting any results, you talk to people who barely speak English.
Solo tiene dos problemas, la tarjeta de video es pobre y el teclado muy poco sensible, hay que teclear dos veces algunas letras.
Si ests dispuesto a vivir con eso, te la recomiendo.
Acer AS5742-7120 15.6-Inch Laptop (Mesh Black)
The CDs (4 total) do not work.
The only problem is that it would not recognize the battery ("no battery detected) and no matter what you do (update BIOS to 2013 version, uninstall ACPI, and every possible solution found in the web) it still does not recognize the battery.
He said his research showed this is a common problem.
I gave it as a gift to my son who was going to begin his engineering career.
So for users that have a dual band router cannot use the 5 Ghz portion (not a big deal).
After numerous attempts of trying (including setting the clock in BIOS setup directly), I gave up(I am a techie).
He wanted a specific computer for college.
Built in WiFi and bluetooth allows him to do his work on the go without hassel.
Had to return for intermittent failure of the "g" key to work.
Cuando vi el precio de $662.00 "se me saltaron los ojos" La compre dudando un poco, pero ahora que la tengo no me arrepiento.
Excelente rendimiento en juegos, la conecto a mi HDTV de 37" con el cable HDMI y los juegos y pelculas corren estupendos, casi como tener una consola de juegos.
i had a gateway before (about 5 years old) and i loved it, but i wanted something with more modern hardware.
I have it till this day and it still works flawlessly, runs most modern games (Black Ops Included) with top resolution and AA turned on.
he died while in transit so returned item un opened when it arrived.
After that, do yourself another favor and join one of the support/ user groups for this netbook (there are two that I know about, and can be found running a search for "the best way to upgrade a sylvania netbook").
The kind people in those groups can help you optimize this subnotebook with suggestions, tips, and where to find appropriae Win CE software.
I would not recommend this product or the company from which I purchased it(Elextronics Expo through Amazon)  This was to be a present for my daughter, I was unable to by her another in time for Christmas.
J&R Music and Computer World sent it right a way.
and sent her a email explaining my years loyalty to the HP brand and my displeasure with the disintegration of the plastic housing and loudness of the cooling fan.
I bought this for my 9 year old daughter who likes to play games like Nancy Drew and the Sims on her PC..
Powerful laptop, and not very pricey (got it after a huge discount before christmas eve).
Includes two video cards, one dedicated (1 Gb DDR3) and another one integrated (288 mb shared), both switchable, so you can go integrated when running on battery, and dedicated when on AC, you decide.
After two months, begin to hard disk is damaged, later memory damage, finally computer motherboard damage, are now under maintainance.
)- AM
We bought 2 of these (12/31/10 and 1/7/11).
The laptop is home at all times, on the couch (soft surface) and never takes a beating, it is just poorly put together.
On the 13th month (1 month after the warranty expired), the powercord arced and fried the motherboard.
hola les escribo para informarle que la compra que hice de esta lapto fue hecha bajo el supper shippen y luego cancele la targeta pero me hicieron algunos cargos a la targeta que tienen que devolverme.
Lots of hard drive space (620GB)and 4GB RAM.
Basically their online support is both hard to understand (they outsource their call centers out of the USA) and unwilling to budge from a one-solution-should-fit-all mentality.
However HP shipped me old model dressed up (I ordered 8Gb memory) dm4t and tried to convince me that what I got is the same as ordered one.
The shipping list said UV499AV but the number on case of the laptop said UV440AV (dm4t-2000).
Is turned out that replacement of a wrong model will take more than month to happened - I order on June 2nd and will get replacement on July 13th eventually).
He continued to tell me that they were incompatible - but finally said that he could hook me up with another HP technician group that could, for $59.00 solve my problem.
I had bought two of these computers  Amazon (first purchase) and another from Staples few days later.
The integrated video card (Intel HD) was bad.
The new internet explorer is more designed for kids who are into all the social networking crap and playing moronic games.
I dont require my life to be synched, or facebook friends, or twitter tweets from twats (female tweeters)or any of the other nonsense that is a complete waste of time.
(By the way, if you call for support, the HP Call Center is in India - they just read a script that repeats company policy - pathetic!)
(Not an easy looking repair btw).
There is an electrical problem which forces the computer to randomly shut down (other customers have been told it is related to over heating).
After looking up multiple potential ways to fix, I became aware the there are a LOT of people with HP laptops (a multitude of different HP laptops) that all have the same set of problems, including faulty/easy to break powercords.
On the 13th month (1 month after the warranty expired), the powercord arced and fried the motherboard.
Was treated quite well during its SHORT life... Just decides to stop booting up (would turn on and "cap locks" LED on said button continues to flash)...
Once you open it, you cannot reconnect the small ribbon connectors (3) to the motherboard.. Out of shear fustration, I smashed it to pieces and threw it in the garbage!
All these small devices made are junk, but the powers that be, plant into our heads that we need to have them.. Sure, I could have just sent it to a computer store, but I can take that money and put it towards another new one (that hopefully will last longer?)
She uses it for Internet browsing, storing and editing Photos (she takes wedding pictures), managing her iTunes music, and playing WORLD OF WARCRAFT on occasion.
although this was an accident it was still user error, the next time i tried to start it up it had to system restore(as expected) which since i had not created a recent restore point i went back about a week.
Edit: Another con: A lot of "crapware" to remove from the start, no option to recover clean OS.
Cleaned all the HP crap off and tuned things up a bit (removed aero effects and optimized for performance).
Si eres de los que usa el mouse con un dedo en el pad y otro en el boton para presionar, empieza a hacer ejercicio, ya que el este es realmente duro.
Prefieres habiliatar dar clip con el mouse, sin embargo la sensacin no es tan agradable y puede tener su limitacin.
y la seaparacin de letras para alguien que tiene manos grandes est hecho correctamente.
En la composicin de metal de la maquina, cuando se encuentra en un clima frio y est conectada la electricidad, genera una estatica desagradable.
El lector de huella es genial y funciona perfectamente.
Desconecta inmediantemente la funcin Aero y las transparencias, aplica el Ccleaner frecuentemente y no instales muchos software pesado, esto garantizar mantenerse como cuando la compraste.
Es bueno sin embargo no percibo la diferencia cuando cambias del video de ahorro de energia y el video conectado.
Mejor que la de cualquier maquina que he tenido.
Luz que ilumine el teclado para cuando se est en conferencia o teclado retro iluminado.
The scroll down function on the touch pad with two fingers either seems to funtion undersensitively  (not working) or suddenly becomes oversensitive and jumps way down the page.
My wife had Toshiba laptops in the past and always enjoyed them (prior to switching to a Macbook).
Compaq Presario CQ56-110US 15.6-Inch Laptop PC - Up to 4.15 Hours of Battery Life (Black)
This was a christmas gift for my 17 year old daughter and it is everything she needs for school and more.
Key Feature: built-in number pad (unusual for laptops).
His You Tube video and this piece of crap are going to a computer repair facility, but the facility warned me that the fix is such a delicate procedure that even the genius who figured it out warns that trying may destroy the computer.
Excelente equipo, para viajar, para trabajar desde cualquier lugar, la pila dura 5 - 6 horas.
Muy liviana y con gran capacidad de memoria.
The screen is clear and crisp, the keypad is comfortable (she had to get used to the flat keys but that took all of a day) and she loves the 10 key.
Of course, they owed me a return or refund, but it was less hassle to fix the problem at home,(Cost $70.00).
La he adquirido como sustituto de una PC de escritorio.
Tiene un procesador Petiun i3  muy rpido y suficiente memoria ram (4Gb) para realizar labor de dibujo en Arc View GIS y en CAD.
HE UTILIZADO LA PORTATIL POR UNA SEMANA Y EN GENERAL SE DESENVUELVE RAPIDO.
LAS TECLAS SON COMODAS, YA QUE SON MUY SUAVES Y NO PRODUCEN RUIDO.
EL PUNTO NEGATIVO QUE LE HE ENCONTRADO SON LAS CORNETAS QUE A MI JUICIO SUENAN MUY BAJO.
I bought this computer for my wife, so she could do her thing (e-mail, facebook, and such) and have her own computer.
(about 2 1/2 hours from 5% to 100 % charge).
I took over a couple of hours testing them using different applications (Internet , games ect...) No doubt about it.
You will be amazed at how light (just a little over 3 lbs.)
As stated in other reviews of the R705 series (search Amazon), mine has also developed cracks in the bezel on both sides just under the rubber bumpers.
(There are many such complaints - refer[...].
Producto es exelente pero no trae la balija o funda como dicen los demas si biene con la salida para disco SATA externo, pero eso de que el mouse se mueve mas rapido en los extremos es mentira sin duda el que dijo eso debe tener un problema de salud o algo asi ...
A la fecha he tenido varias computadoras portatiles, tres vaio, una Gateway y ahora una Dell.
Esta es la computadora mas rapida, ligera, bonita y con mejores prestaciones que he tenido.
El teclado se siente bien, no se calienta, la velocidad a la que se ejecutan los programas es muy agil con todo y que tiene win 7, la pantalla es excepcional y la pila nada mas dura 7.5 hrs.
Debo decir que le cambie la memoria, compre esta computadora aqui en amazon y tambien compre un kit de 2 sodimms de 4GB de marca crucial: le saque los 4GB que tenia y le puse los 8 GB nuevos, lo hice antes de prenderla por primera vez, justo cuando la desempaque.
La primer razon para comprarla fue estetica pero luego, al ver las prestaciones me gusto mas la idea de cambiar mi computadora actual.
Yo por lo regular habia cambiado de computadora cada ano, ese es mi vicio sin embargo en los ultimos 3 anos no vi una computadora que me gustara para cambiar la Dell que tenia y que compre unicamente por las prestaciones y que, por mi trabajo, salio muy barata pero la realidad nunca me gusto, la usaba porque debia usar una computadora.
Esta la recomiendo porque ademas de estar bonita y ligera, tiene muy buenas prestaciones, realmente no puedes comprar nada en el mercado con mejores prestaciones y por el precio de amazon no hay mejor apuesta.
Debo decir que nunca habia tenido una computadora Toshiba, de las 5 que en los 7 anos anteriores habia tenido mi encanto se habia quedado con la Gateway y con una Vaio de 15" de hace 7 anos (GR-370) pero esta borra a las que anteriormente tenian la categoria de la computadora de mis encantos.
Debo decir que yo uso diario el Excel, Word, Corel Draw, conexion remota de escritorio, internet, compras y banca electronicas, etc.
They claim that now you must make your own "recovery disk" and if you do not you must buy one from them.
They found one of the two ram (2gb) cards was bad.
When I call back, they tell me to send it in again to a "newer, better repair facility" that (again) fails to fix it.
mi computador presenta un problema no enciende, esta apagada, que debo hacer la mquina est aca en Ecuador, pero nadie quiere hacer efectiva la garanta, favor ayudenme, yo les compr a ustedes y alguien debe ayudarme, que hago necesito la mquina, de manera urgente, y quisiera sea cambiada por una nueva, pero nadie quiere ayudarme o responder, no puede ser que una mquina de 1 mes de uso, ya se dae y no funcione.
com  o al telfono 593-96343254  yo realic la compra con ustedes, y creo que ustedes me pueden ayudar.
We have found this to be a great starter for our daughter as she begins her college education.
He is very happy with his gift.
this is a perfect take along gaming machine for those uf you on the go who want the power from home.
]The frame stops and the audio buzzes whenever any little (physical) interference is done to this laptop.
Sin embargo, los botones del mouse por ejemplo estan pegados al filo del panel, lo cual no deja descansar el pulgar.
Creo que de ahi todo lo demas es bueno, si la recomiendo para estudiantes o personas que ocupan lo basico en una laptop.
Bought two laptops (L645DS4050) last December and just having WAY too many issues with them both.
(that is a must have) So............ so far so good!!!
Luego de buscar por todo la red cual Labtop era mas conveniente para mi que reparto mi tiempo entre Jugador, empresario y amistades.
Esta porttil es una maravilla, realmente la compr por la facilidad del teclado numrico ya que mi profesin me exige usar constantmente y andar con otras unidades porttiles (teclado numrico) no es conveniente porque hace ms carga, en cambio con esta porttil tengo todo en un solo paquete, la resolucin de pantalla y capacidad de disco duro es una maravilla, recomiendo la marca y el producto al 100% No me ha fallado desde que la compr y eso hace que uno sea fiel a una marca.
Estoy asombrado con la velocidad que tiene esta laptop es un computador muy rapido, en el se pueden realizar render jugar juegos de ultima generacin trabajar software de tipo erp como sap es un gran equipo.
Excelente Laptop, me quede sorprendido de su velocidad, una relacin de costo-beneficio muy buena; un equipo fiable, ciertamente no muy atractivo pero para las personas que buscamos simplemente buen rendimiento es una laptop recomendable en mi opinin.
Lo nico malo es que no he podido encontrar los driver para Windows XP de 64 Bits.
Ha resultado ser un buen producto y bueno el servicio de entrega.
Cumple con las especificaciones ofrecidas por el proveedor.
He quedado muy impresionado con el equipo.
Me dedico al desarrollo de software y puedo decir que las laptops Toshiba tienen la potencia y resistencia para la exigente labor que realizo.
The original Realtek Driver (version 1002.2.428.2010, dated 4-28-2010), was causing the wireless connection to continually connect and disconnect.
Original hard drive crashed in July 2012 (lasted 16 months).
New hard drive crashed in July 2013 (lasted 11 months).
"Looking for another lap-top now.
Toshiba used a Seagate "Certified Repaired HDD" when they replaced the hard drive in August, 2012, instead of a new hard drive.
It is a sleek and light weight laptop, yet powerful with the new line of Intel processor (I3).
Es un buen producto, lo unico que falto fue el pao para limpiar la maquina, por lo demas esta todo bien, funciona muy bien y el windows 7 excelente!!!
es una de las computadoras mas completas que he visto.. la compre para sustituir mi antigua toschiba que ya tenia  aos con ella.. hasta los momentos me encanta mi nueva laptop.
very happy;)
En primer lugar disculpen por escribir mi opinin en espaol, soy de Ecuador y la compr en Amazon para que esta sea enviada por medio del servicio que ofrece el Estado Ecuatoriano.
No tuve problemas con el envo, no tuve problemas de demora, tampoco problemas de fabricacin, me siento contento ya que despus de escoger entre muchas laptops, esta se acoplaba a mis necesidades a un precio muy razonable, los contras, bueno, la pantalla tiene un leve tinte verde, que al parecer si es un problema que muchos tienen pero no del todo significativo o muy importante, la rpida solucin que le d fue calibrando los colores y reducir el tinte verde.
Mi necesidad era para trabajarla en el rea de diseo y post-produccin, es por eso que la Q896 si cumple mis necesidades.
On paper (or on the digital version of paper), the machine is quite good.
Ian FilsonUniversity of Pittsburgh, School of Law
I have also gotten a high end notebook (over $3000) which I returned (due to broken screw set at the bottom of laptop after I have received it and other issues) and came down to this one.
Toshiba Satellite A665-3DV5 15.6-Inch LED Laptop (Fusion X2 Finish in Charcoal)is excellente product, funtastic to video, entertaiment and game.
There is a newer model available, but the chip was instantly recalled(stonebridge?).
(There are two other Toshiba laptops in the house, and neither has a problem.)
(I work coordinating a help desk for an IT department) It has a glossy surface like a pane of glass which adds tremendously to the appearance of depth in the images (but also makes placement critical to avoid reflections).
No more "where did the curser jump to?")
I HAVE ORDER THIS LAPTOPOperating system Genuine Windows 7 Home Premium 64-bitProcessor Intel Core2 Duo Processor T6600Processor speed 2.20GHzMemory 4096MB DDR2 System Memory (2 Dimm); max.
The laptop plays Left4Dead2 and TF2 maxed out (~45 fps on L4D2 maxed) while staying quiet and cool.
are excellen proice, quiality Acer AS7745G-9823 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black) Acer AS7745G-9823 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black)
Aunque el arranque al encenderla y el apagado es bastante lento, comparado con otras computadoras Toshiba.
El procesador es un poco lento para mi gusto, pero por lo dems creo que fue una buena opcin mi compra y espero poder decir lo mismo a futuro.
Ordered one mouse from Amazon in one day shipping today (01/05/11).
After checking and updating and driver and two calls to toshiba tech help it was obviously a malfunctioning machine (duff  budgie).
Lost 48 dollars on deal due to terms and conditions (not suppliers fault).
Toshiba have ignored my e-mails as to what they propose to do (nothing?)
Swivels back to the other side of the bar (customer side) to function as a PC.
Have to say, "Way to go Gateway".
It was getting hot as well( Not too hot)Pros:No bloatware.
So made it an "ultrabook" (well, sorta)  with just a  $150 SSD and a $17 CD with transfer cable.
(I added some velcro strips to the back of the laptop, then to the inside case - I work with the laptop always in the case.
But any way more about the product; upon first glance when taking this machine out of its box, and i say machine because i dare not call a system this powerful a "netbook", is "Wow, an i7 in this?
LLEGO EN PERFECTO ESTADO, ES RAPIDA, NO PESA, LA BATERIA DURA AL MENOS 2 HORAS NAVEGANDO, NO HE PROBADO MAS DE ESE TIEMPO, LA PANTALLA NO TIENE NINGUN PIXEL MUERTO AL MENOS A VISTA NORMAL SIN PRUEBAS ESPECIFICAS.
LO UNICO QUE LE HACE FALTA ES QUE LE PONGAN DE UNA VEZ SU BOLSA PARA LLEVARLA A MEDIDA COMO LA HACIA CON LAS LAPTOP ATOM.
It is small but effectiveness is high and proves size dosent matter :-)
).
I have a dream of getting another my old and first ever lasting IBM (not Lenovo) Thinkpad.
i ebay, i wiki, i amazon, i google, and i do some field interviews and browsing (at employees from and at stores like walmart, best buy, computer repair shops...  etc) before i settle down on any product/merchandise that is considered an investment.
yes, i am jealous of my step-sons new computer; but i rest easy knowing that i got him something that he can take with him and will find invaluable when he decides to move on to college life and what not.
It has taken anything iv thrown at it and it plays world of warcraft with 60fps plus call of duty black ops with no problem eather and all other games iv thrown at it.
The first one, after 5 months of usage, had a keyboard failure, which Sony could not fix; so after 1 month of waiting they replaced the laptop (with an identical one).
The replacement laptop (brand new) failed after 3 weeks of usage - this time the display went out.
com) but could not figure out what was going on.
SPANISHmuy malo, en las etiquetas iniciales del producto deben describir lo que no tiene, sino que solamente ponen como si los tuviera.
It is nice, purchased at staples for $520 (it was a brand new clearence item), check your local stores, you may get lucky and find one if they still have it (give them the 6 digit # 906418, thats how they find the computer in their system).
Cons(not many):-I thought this particular config had bluetooth also.
I switched from Macbook pro (2010 model) to the 1920x1080 model of this notebook.
S&H; as per Feb-2011, and the seller said its (Brand New), there was NO Mention that its a Microsoft Signature laptop in the Seller Description, I received it after lots of Delay, and when I finally did, it was full of Scratch marks on the LID, and many signs of abuse.
Only problem that always exists: when opet Adobe Reader (or Adobe Acrobat) wiht 2 or more documents, program make problem with Graphic driver.
Unfortunately, seller did not include that the fax modem port is plugged up (maybe not supported by a 32 bit Win 7 Home Premium O/S installed on it?).
This, along with the fact that a business computer installed with Home Premium instead of win 7 Professional and only had 2 gigs of ram installed ( requiring a memory upgrade if you want to replace the 32 bit o/s with a 64 bit o/s) did put a minor blemish on the deal.
All in all fast enough for lower end 3d gaming (world of warcraft, older Half life 2 engine titles, newer games played in low detail levels)
AlienWareM11x, viene con una buena configuracin y muy bien embalada.
Tenia la duda que la AlienWareM11x, no me dejara elegir el color de las luces frontales, pero en realidad si es posible cambiarlo.
es muy bueno migrar a la version Ultimate con el AnytimeUpdate.
Algo que es para considerar, es que esta version de AlienWare no trae unidad Optica, por lo que se tiene que usar una externa via usb para poder instalar los juegos, cosa que tarda demasiado en los juegos que usan dvd9, ya que como saben la velocidad de lectura de las unidades externas estn limitas unas a 8x y a eso le sumamos la velocidad del conector usb2.0, y la velocidad del procesador que es un poco lento, la combinacin de estas hace que la instalacin de un Modern Warfare 2 o The Last Remnant dure un promedio de 50 min.
por lo que disfrutar de un juego llevara su tiempo, eso si... un disfrute con todos los detalles adecuados.
La he tenido trabajando durante muchos meses para considerar la evaluacion y el resultado es un excelente Laptop.
Y el costo es bajo en comparacion con los beneficios ya recibidos.
Just no because:1) 6GB RAM - what is this?
when i am home I am online playing games such as Rift, COD, and others,  Most of them with Maxed out graphics(havent been able to max out Rift,  and when i am at work my laptop is diligently converting movies and music into MP4 format so i can throw it all on my IPOD,  or it is downloading some meaning less application that i just cant live without at that particular moment in time..
- Excelente computadora, muy rpida y con bastante memoria.- Excelente resolucin de la pantalla incluso cuando veo una pelcula en Blueray.- Excelente para usar programas relacionados con dibujo como el Autocad y el Photoshop.
Wouldve gotten this one (HP Envy) through Costco also, but they didnt have it.
however 3 screen multimonitor gaming on medium settings is laggy...(playing lock on flight simulator)integrated webcam is stunning!
The Sony Vaio VPCEE32FX/BJ 15.5 LED, AMD Athlon II Dual Core P340 (2.20GHz), 4GB DDR3 RAM, 320GB Hard Drive, Windows 7 is a good laptop except for the Windows 7 (it sucks - Microsoft wants to run your computer their way and not yours).
The computer comes with Office 2010 installed and there is no way to uninstall or delete it (there goes 10 gig of your hard drive).
Stats: Intel Core(tm) i5-540M processor (2.53GHz) with Intel Turbo Boost technology up to (3.06GHz), 4GB RAM, 256GB SSD, Wi-Fi : Intel Centrino Advanced-N 6200 (802.11a/b/g/n).
:)
:)
I had a D630 before this and the nVIDIA chipset went bad (common problem).
I have had this computer for 18 months now (got it in December 2010).
Mine always has run hot (70+C) and has shut off from overheating probably once a month or so.
The HDD went out in about a year, after the warranty expired (bought it about a year ago).
To quote another similar review with the same problem: "Toshiba--never again."
Now the bottom left corner is completely separated from the rest of the computer minus the wiring, which is now under stress and threatening to break.
I got this unit in Northern Minnesota in just 3 days, (Standard shipping) but it was damaged in shipment.
I am replacing an "IBM" Think pad --- love their durability and no-frills method of construction.
They claimed a "foreign substance" was found in the display.
Sin duda estos equipos estan orientados a hacer el uso mas sencillo para todos.
Long story short, having failed to find a good option, and having the (wrong) impression that all Apple laptops utilize IPS displays, I jumped the gun on this 11" MBA.
They are lightweight and the only way to go for kids who love to surf the net and take chances of getting viruses.
However, it will wake up almost instantly, or take under 20 seconds to reboot (SSD does the magic).
Over the course of the last 1 month - one by one the following have failed on my brand new fujitsu (bought less than 3 months ago) :Network card (working sporadically only)USB3 ports (both of them)The trackpad (not working any more)The numlock keysThe erratic jumps of the mouse (using external mouse)Who knows what else will fail on this horrendous machine.
This unit (Asus K52T-BBR5) failed right out of the box.
This product has performed very well with middle and high school students over the course of two years.
It has sort of a matte finish (not shiny) so it does not show fingerprints.
For $330 this is indeed a good deal (310 after $20 gift card), even without the webcam and mic.
USPS says the tracking number does not exist (both in store and online).
Picked this up on the Lightning deals but if you plan to watch movies - terrible.
On setup of laptop Blue Screen Of Death appeared (IRQL LESS THAN OR NOT EQUAL TO ZERO).
For what this laptop was intended(an affordable new laptop) it gets the job done.
It is not intended to play video games(although I have successfuly played games on it such as Sims 3 and Sims Medieval).
All people want is something for nothing(the person bitching about they should get an HD webcam).
Guess the old rule applies if it is too good to be true ... Toshiba Satellite C655-S5119 15.6-Inch Laptop (Black)
She loves it compared to her old Gateway.
I got this laptop around summer or 2010 and it lasted about 4 years (rough use).
So far I have been able to complete all of my desired tasks, from completing work projects, to data sheets, composing sophisticated letters, as well as taking breaks and playing games online and on facebook.
This is a classic "bait and switch".
Yesterday, the hard disk crashed from mechanical failure (it was a 500GB Seagate HDD).
Came back "fixed" with the SAME problem upon return.
I am a database developer; I work with Sql server 2005 client tools, virtual box, MS office, VPNs and other development recourses.
* EXCELENT display (HD with Led).
* Quiet enough (fan and hard drive).
As the random black screens & "video striping" became more frequent it became obvious that neither ATI nor Asus was claiming the problem and it was not about to be resolved anytime soon.
After Asus kept this laptop for more than 3 months in repair (they said they "lost it") we have been struggling with it on & off for the past 10 months.
One of the USB ports will hard power down the entire laptop if you happen to touch a USB cord to the port upside down (like that NEVER happens), essentially shorting out the laptop.
We will be getting another one (larger  when her daughter wants one of her own.
After 1 year and 9 months of home use (only used a couple of hours each day) the computer started cutting off the power to itself and would not turn back on immediately.
All in all the computer works great for basic student needs (essays, research, excel).
She has no qualms with the keyboard or mouse pad (as others have stated).
Despues de esperar mas de 2 meses por mi pedido esta llego mala, con disco duro quemado y el sistema operativo no instalado, y de paso me hicieron unos cargos a mi cuenta que no se especifica de que son.
It does the job when it comes to his homework, games, youtube and the special shows he likes to watch.
She wanted it large enough to watch a movie or tv show via the internet from time to time (plus it has the HDMI out to hook to TV).
And sometimes there is a separately partitioned drive (d:) that is embedded within the c: drive used for system restore.
It has at least thrice (that means three times!)
I bought an acer (slightly different ,models) for both my wife and daughter and for BOTH the sound does not come out of the jack.
El diseo  es muy moderno, liviano y los extras son excelentes.
Tienen todo lo necesario para una computadora personal, trabajos de la universidad, trabajos que se lleva a la casa de la oficina.
According to the Acer website, as well as my contact with their technician, the max memory should be 4 GB (each chip 2 GB), rather than 8 GB as posted on the Amazon website.3.
It does not crash and burn while I multitask (writing papers, checking sources on the internet, watching movies while procrastinating and chatting on facebook).
Now that we are home, the Aspire is on the kitchen counter or streaming an "instant" or pumping Spotify into our stereo system.
The "grainy" exterior takes a little getting used to, however in the end who cares that much...
However, the laptop I received does not work properly (I already sent in a trouble ticket).
La computadora es buena para cualquier uso excepto juegos y/o graficos potentes, lo cual es un poco decepcionante, deberia venir con una tarjeta de video superior a la que tiene.
)UPGRADES & ACCESSORIES to consider:1.
Few comments:(1) I use "Home" and "End" commands all the time to move cursors, but this laptop does not have dedicated (direct) keys for "Home" and "End", instead you need to do "Fn+PageUp" for Home and "Fn+PageDown" for End.
(3) Power button is immediately above Esc key.
:-)
Excelente laptop para trabajos, excel, word, navegar, sin embargo para ver videos y usar el cable HDMI no es muy recomendable ya que la tarjeta de video no es buena y con cualquier video muy pesado se traba o no lo reproduce bien.
Excelente laptop y todo lo que contiene solo que el disco duro se dao a los 7 meses de uso y tuve que reemplazarlo por otro.
Search google for "How to switch graphics card with Nvidi - Lenovo" .
As for the Windows 7, a person who has typed for over 25 years and used Microsoft word since the beginning - the subtle differences are annoying and frustrating.
I never got this item -- it was an "Identity stealing" item.
The person who bought this pretended he was us and this item was shipped to him in Conn. before we were able to stop this crime.
es un poco grande, en velocidad y capacidad esta muy bien, el diseo es un poco extrao ya que tiene esas bolitas por toda la computadora,,,Pero si es bastante barata para la capacidad que tiene.
Finally this past weekend the motherboard went out when the 7 beeps started happening.
Michael S. DellChairman of the Board, Chief Executive OfficerOne Dell Way, Mail Stop - 8033Round Rock, Texas  78682 - 7000---------------------------------------------------------------------Office of the Attorney General of TexasMr.
Then the infamous "7 beeps of death."
Then after the two year mark I got the "7 beeps of death".
If Michael Dell bought one of these he would have sued himself........ piece of junk for sure
She is excited about starting college in the fall with her Dell.
Then my hard drive went bad (no fault of my own), they had to replace it.
Tiene muchas funciones Dell combinadas con las del sistema operativo (Windows 7)que la hacen ms eficaz.
Si bien algunas personas dicen que lo malo de esta laptop es que quedan las marcas de los dedos en la parte inferior del tablero, eso no es inconveniente pues se puede limpiar con cualquier pao de algodn y queda como nueva.
Una caracterstica que llama la atencin es el teclado, el cual incluye in track de nmeros a la derecha, como los teclados convencionales de PCs.
To give you a concise view of my experience with Dell ... here is my letter to them:Dear Dell,Since your repair policy is one where you use REFURBISHED PARTS, (to make repairs),  ...
Excelente computador a un muy buen precio, a la fecha tengo 3 meses con el y no hay queja alguna.
Pro:- Precio- Rapidez- Capacidad- DiseoContras:- Batera (con el WIFI encendido me dura menos de 3 horas).- No posee puerto Gigaethernet.
Cuando me decidi comprarla no estaba muy seguro aun de este equipo pero cuando me llego a mi casa y la vi por primera vez me quede impresionado por la elegancia y calidad, ademas trae teclado numerico y botones de acseso directo a tu musica, bateria, resolucion de pantalla, internet, es una exelente marca a un exelente precio, y la resolusion de la pantalla es genial.
Dell Inspiron 15R 1570MRB 15.6-Inch Laptop (Mars Black)
AL PRINCIPIO TENIA MIEDO DE COMPRALA, PORQUE HABIA INTENDO OBTENERLA A TRAVES DE OTRA PAGINA Y SIEMPRE HABIA UN INCOVENIENTE TOMANDO EL DINERO DE MI TARJETA, HASTA QUE POR FIN LO HICE POR AMAZON Y NO ME ARREPIENTO.
LA TENGO YA POR CASI 4 MESES Y HA SIDO TODA UNA EXPERIENCIA.
COMENZADO POR EL DISEO QUE POSEE SE VE BASTANTE SOFISTICADA Y ELEGANTE, TIENE UN TECLADO NUMERICO QUE FACILITA AUN MUCHO MAS CUALQUIER TRABAJO RELIZADO EN ELLA Y EL SONIDO DE SUS PARLANTES ES EL MEJOR QUE HAYA ESCUSHADO EN UNA LAPTOP.
ES UNA COMPUTADORA SUPER EFICIENTE, YA QUE POR SU GRAN CAPACIDAD DE ALMACENAMIETO DE 640 GB Y SU PROCESADOR i3 HACE QUE TRABAJE CON RAPIDES Y TE BRINDE UNA GRAN SATISFACCION.
FINALMENTE, RECOMIENDO AL 100% ESTA COMPUTADORA Y MAS POR EL PRECIO QUE LA OBTUVE QUE FUE DE 530 DOLARES ESTA MAS QUE BUENA.
If the graphic card cannot handle the most simple of kid games (like Sims)or basic educational software (especially the Math & science fields) what good is this machine other than simple web wading and typing out resumes?
My kids do not need a power machine for the heavy gamers (they have game consoles for that) but they do need a basic graphic card for homework and their fun, simple kid games!
Similarly view (Tiles, lists so on ) tucked on the right side.
Will come back and see his it went.
This was my "christmas gift" from my father.
!I spent hours researching this to see if it was common (answer, "yes, very") then many more hours arguing with Apple headquarters to convince them to replace these items.
This was a christmas gift--I live in Washington state and it was for my mother who lives in California.
After several days of calls to the vendor, the vendor had my mother dismantle it and remove the hard drive and send it in for repair (being in a different state I was unable to help).
tal y como lo describio en el anuncio asi era el producto.
A search on the web revealed that this fault is not uncommon, so not the fault of this vendor.
The MacBook, a late 2006 edition, with OS X 10.6.8 (Snow Leopard) and iWorks looks immaculate when opened, though showing significant wear on both the top and bottom outside covers.
The laptop runs hot (hot to the palms).
(8)I bought this to replace a stolen unit of the same vintage.
They repaired it in US but soon after a couple of months it had a problem in the HD and it began to crash all the time.
I now face the prospect of waisting more money (I have waisted a lot on it) or buy a new one.
Will try to bring it back to the oringinal format.... but what a pain in the butt....
Had this product just 18 months (6 months past warranty expiration) when the hard drive failed.
The cooling system (fan) was running constantly from the very first boot.
El equipo, estaba como nuevo, tiene todos sus accesorios y funciona perfectamente, nunca he tenido problemas al comprar en amazon
On the 13th month (1 month after the warranty expired), the powercord arced and fried the motherboard.
This is an incredible piece of technology that everyone must lay his/her hands on to testify.
I called HP and spent the first two hours of the call following instructions from their "award winning" help desk.
He then routed my call to a "warranty rep" (or something like that) who came on the line a half hour later.
They appear to have reached a corporate decision to send out defective machines and then repair them under warranty.
Finally, I should mention that the last printer I bought (three months ago), also HP, was also dead out of the box (they sent a new one).
The computer does have the i3 processor which is the lowest of the 3 (i3, i5, and i7) but is a major upgrade from the celeron processor.
Para empezar tengo que decir que fue una excelente inversin, la portatil trae todo lo que menciona la publicacin y en mi caso, con todos sus accesorios y en perfectas condiciones.
Lo nico malo es que no trae camara web integrada ni conexin HDMi, pero de resto tiene una gran apariencia y cumple con las funciones indicadas.
Tardo casi tres semanas en llegar a destino, tiempo record para compras de este tipo.
As I was talking with the tech support, they had me go through the usual trouble shooting as well (which I gladly did).
P. S:This review is written by a non "power" user for another non power user :).
Dead Island: 1600x900 medium settings no AA, Vsync on went from 50 to 60 fps.
Crysis 2: Gamer settings at 1152x720 AA forced by game called TSAA with  vsync ran at 50 to 60 fps.
AspireAS7739G-6676 ( NX.
Bing(tm) BarWindows Live(tm) EssentialsInput DevicesPointing Device Type TouchPadKeyboard YesBattery InformationNumber of Cells 6Battery Chemistry Lithium ion (li-ion)Battery Capacity 4400 mAhMaximum Battery Run Time up to 4 hoursPhysical CharacteristicsColor Mesh blackHeight 1.07"/1.35"Width 16.6"Depth 10.8"Weight (Approximate) 7.27 lbs.
MiscellaneousPackage ContentsAspire AS7739G NotebookLithium ion batteryAC adapterGreen Compliance YesGreen Compliance Certificate/Authority Energy StarWarrantyWarranty  One-year Limited International Travelers Warranty (ITW)Two-year Limited International Travelers Warranty (ITW) for the following models: AS5742Z-4630, AS5742-6674, AS5750-6677 and AS5560-Sb653.
I got this for a friend from Germany a while back, he has been able to play games like minecraft and skyrim quite well.
I was going to buy it the same day that the Intel error was announced (1/31)... phew... dodged a bullet and return headache.
I have tested and benchmarked several games such as battlefield bad company 2(my personal favorite)Everything High,Max Resolution,no hboa,no v-sync,4x AA,1xAF,28-38 fps,without AA 40-50 fps.
Portal(similar i guess),crysis everything maxed in dx9(forced very high on everything by parameter changes)max resolution,no aa 35+ i believe(it was very smooth)crysis 2 multiplayer demo was smooth too.
)No Blue tooth.
( <10 dollar fix with a dongle.)4.
)You have to create your own factory restore disks.
She said it felt just as light in her bag, but loved the larger screen (such as for Excel spreadsheets) and the DVD reader (such as for an occasional film to relax).
this defect is well known and the cause of a successful class action suit against nvidia.
The appeal was the i5 processor (Sandy Bridge) and the built in DVD drive.
Does anybody else have a similar issue?After lengthy conversations with the technical support at Toshiba (3 times), and them repeatedly telling me that I should have a 640GB hard-drive, I finally challenged them to prove to me in any manner that I have the larger capacity.
Although its bad, its tolerable for shows (but for music its just plain awful).
As an economics graduate student who shuffles between cities, this computer has been fantastic.
executes "shogun2 total war" seamlessly.
It is light, but feels sturdy; it is simple, but works great for basic computing (web, word processing, reference programs).
!Despus de haber tenido una Toshiba Satelite desde el 2005, yo pens que iba tener la misma experiencia cuando yo comprara otra nueva, pero no fue as, desde el principio se frisaba  y despus de unos meses en el centro de reparacin de Toshiba en mi pas, esperaba que siguiera bien, y despus de 5 meses ella volvi a darme problemas, actualmente tiene 2 meses en centro de reparacin otra vez.
Compr esta toshiba, pensando en que iba a ser una buena inversion y me equivoqu.. desde la primera ves que la encend, a los 15 minutos se quedo congelada y no respondio mas.. sino hasta que la apagu.
Reinstal el SO nuevamente y ha sido lo mismo.. a cada momento se queda "pegada".
ahora voy a tener que recurrir a una devolucion y todo el tiempo que eso conlleva.
de ahora en adelante creo que seguire con mi marca favorita "Dell".
:(
DESDE LO OBSERVADOR QUE SOY, EL SERVICIO HACIA AMERICA LATINA PUEDE SER DE MEJORES PRECIOS DADO LAS DIFICULTADES DE ADQUISICIN DE LA MONEDA, SIN EMBARGO LA INFORMACIN ES PERTINENTE Y ASERTIVA POR PARTE DE LA EMPRESA AMAZON.. GRACIAS.
Computer was unbeleivably (SIC) slow when it worked.
Recibi el producto en perfectas condiciones, no hubo ningun contra tiempo con la entrega todo sali segn lo ofertado por el vendedor.
La computadora es increible y funciona perfectamente mis amigos indican solo cosas buenas de la computadora y es facil de transportar por que no es muy pesada para el tamao de 15.6 pulgadas
This computer (Model Number C655-S5142) just failed for a hard drive.
Screen (monitor) stopped working or responding after less than five months.
Compr este computador portatil hace 1 mes, el servicio de envo por correo fue excelente.
El sonido desde los parlantes es espantoso, pero si usas audifonos es genial.
La teclas derecha e izquierda del pad mouse son muy delicadas y estan muy en el borde del laptop, por lo tanto son ms susceptibles a daos, la tecla izquierda del mo ya se averi.
El resto de especificaciones y detalles cumplen con mis expectativas.
(Not good if outside)
Debido al supuesto problema del Teclado (el cual no se me ha presentado y si se presenta se corrige fcil con una actualizacin a la bios) consegu este equipo en un muy buen precio.
This my second Toshiba, The first being an A205-S4607 which was  most durable after frequent encounters with my two year old( knocks, bumps and juice spills which is why I decided to stick with the brand).
The second gen i3 Intel processor (2310M) is up to the task on basic as well as more advanced apps.
The bluescreen of the death popped up.
(No returns after Jan 30th, convenient.)
Unfortunately, the second XPS12 even worse than the first one(have both touchscreen and wifi issue).
The system starts up quick (solid state) and runs programs fast as well and is pretty light.
Save your money if the creators of this company cared about their customers a product this bad never would have been released.
Quote: "... make sure you have the original packaging, the manufacturing box of if the original UPC code is cut from the box, you return will not be processed."
Exelente computador, con una velocidad muy buena, adems para el precio que me costo me parece que llena mis espectativas de trabajo, se los recomiendo.
A really good buy :-).
tengo quince dias de estar usando mi computadora, muy buena velocidad del procesador, es muy buena computadora, lo unico que no me convence es que la duracion de las especificaciones dice ser de 6 horas, pero nada mas me dura 2 a mi, me imagino que es problema de bateria y no de cmputadora
Mi laptop toshiba tiene un excelente precio-rendimiento, con el procesador Core i3 y los 4gb ddr3 de memoria las aplicaciones se ejecutan muy bien, no tengo ninguna queja por el desempeo, lo unico que me tiene algo molesto es la duracion de la bateria, inicio con alrededor 3 horas los primeros dias pero despues de casi un mes esta casi durando una hora, llame al centro de soporte de latinoamerica y me dieron el telefono de un representante en Colombia, espero llevarla y que me resuelvan el problema.
Es una maquina completa y muy equipada para el precio que posee.
Ademas para los que dudan de comprar en linea, soy de un pais centroamericano y me llego en perfectas condiciones.
Asus es la marca de porttil nico que tiene una mayor fiabilidad de Toshiba Cuando me registr el de Toshiba, este es el modelo que estaban empujando (y al parecer, an lo son).
Tiene un teclado de tamao completo con un teclado numrico de la derecha.
Bueno, yo estaba equivocado - lo hizo el trabajo.
Se transfiere un montn de datos en un abrir y cerrar de ojos.
Slo lo he tenido un mes, as que no puedo hablar con la longevidad.
Sin embargo, la duracin de la batera es bastante buena, y es un gran equipo - especialmente en el precio!
The Toshiba comes highly ranked via Consumer Reports and our daughter had one that lasted throughout college and beyond.
One would be the easily made finger smudges, and the other would be the amount of usb ports(two of them).
ademas de tener Garanta INTERNACIONAL, en cualquier pas donde alla centro de servicio TOSHIBA funcionara la garanta.
The fan runs and the air is hot(60C by thermalmeter).
Core i3 processor has worked very good until today for multitasks (internet and office applications at same time).
The only issue is that new 64-processor until today does not work with old model printers(last used with 32bit processors).... but this is a matter of any 64bit processor.
la compu esta super linda util y todo pero t meineten con respecto a q tiene 650 GB xq la mia solo traia 580 maximo, pero por el resto todo esta super bien...
Una vez consultados varios precios, marcas, modelos y sobre todo la configuracion de varias maquinas, esta ha resultado ser una de las mejores inversiones que he realizado.
Para el tamano que tiene resulta ser bastane liviana, no te arrepentiras de adquirirla.
But as she stumbled with trying mine, I decided to buy her a PC Windows &.
Sony VAIO VPC-F13YFX/H 16.4-Inch Widescreen Entertainment Laptop (Grey)
:)
Easily gets hotter and hotter and the cooling fan sound (which is unnecessarily noisy during standby) also gets louder and louder.
Turns out there is a common issue with the screen "blacking out" that is the begining of the end of the motherboard.
But when it died in less than a year while still under warranty, (and the paid for on site repair warranty), their customer service was awfull.
The touch pad is way too sensitive and I have trouble with the cursor jumping to another place and messing up  my typingI found a solution - tape a non-bar plastic card (shape of a credit card) and tape it over the touchpad and use a mouse.
After checking with Amazon, Sony, and Circuit City(where it come from), I was not able to find another and ended up ordering a Toshiba.
Sixth, RECOMMENDED :)
Queria uma tela grande (depois de ficar de olhos cansados de tando netbook, iphone...), um som poderoso (sem chiados), um processador idem, para rodar as pesquisas cientificas para as quais eu libero o meu note.
No e um note para v ficar carregando por ai na bolsa (para isso existem os tablets).
um HD razovel para quem como eu gosta de armazenar tudo quanto  coisa (zilhes de filmes, fotos, animaes)Pedi entrega rpida (1 dia ) para o endereo da minha filha que mora nos EUA, e entregaram no prazo, bem embalado.
tech support from both M and T used remote acess of the laptop in an attempt to correct the problem.
Great and clear sound from the speakers and I have personally tested numerous MMO games on this laptop and played them at full capacity (World of Warcraft, Star Wars: The Old Republic, Champions: Online, and DC Universe, Online specifically) and all of them ran with 0 issues, especially after upgrading to 8GB of RAM.
:)
?excuse me you morons - it has a batter because its a LAPTOPsO AFTER 1 HOUR in front of mh boss with al the other techs laughing at the new consultantwho was DUMB enough to buy a toshiba the tech tells me\Oh yea well we will escellate you so in three days they will cal youin 3 days they only sent me an email - theywere too busy to actually call meThen i rebuit it (i took the ram out) re-seated it , same with the hard disks\Hell toshiba, amazon and the other thirdparty al told metough luck - sorry you bought it but your hosed..
Last night my husband was "pouting" about how he would like his own... so this A. M. I purchased one for him.
excelente maquina.. desde que me llego no he tenido ningun problema, funciona a la perfeccion, lo que si podria mejorarse es el rendimiento de la bateria.
The mouse pad (as mentioned by another reviewer) is sub optimal - slow to respond and seemingly inaccurate at times.
com  and stack it with this code "SVQ724862" for a total saving of $35 off.
She loves and uses it too much according to her mom.
(She thinks she had way too many programs loaded at once.)
Has had no problems running her games (which do not have high requirements).
Ok. la compra se relaizo sin ningun inconveniente .. recomendadoEl producto de primera a tiempo y sin complicasiones... a futuro realizaria la compra con toda seguridad.
Treating its customers with ignorance and in-acceptable response-times!Finally I exchanged the AMD board and put an intel board in - and the machine was more or less OK. At least I managed to survive aprox.
4 months (Toshiba drive)and the equipment tends to get very warm; the fan runs all the time now.
Performance is surprisingly zippy, outrunning my work provided Dell Latitude D630  (the 630 is a 2 year old  model with an Intel Core 2 Duo T7250 2 GHz and 2 gigs of RAM along with standard Intel integrated graphics).
Just running a couple of graphic intensive screen savers (Helios) revealed the power of the dm1z... the 610 cannot run these without extreme frame rate reduction... the new dm1z blazes right through them.
2 months later same message " imminent hard drive failure" sent me a new hard drive #3.
6 months later( now out of warranty) same message "imminent hard drive failure" called HP again.
Mine (7 mo old) is defective.
He also told me that this could only occur from some sort of "pressure or impact".
There is a little bit of flex in the outer surface of the lid (behind the display).
La portatil en capacidad y rendimiento es excelente, corre programas de diseo, tambien tiene una capacidad de respuesta bastante rapida... El unico problema es que la bateria le dura 2 horas, en el manual dice que maximo te puede durar 3 horas... En realidad es una desventaja grande pero en fin en las especificaciones si dice que la bateria es de 6 celdas una capacidad limitada para una laptop.. la maquina por el precio es una buena oportunidad de adquirir un excelente producto a un costo accesible para muchas personas.
El pago del producto lo rechazo el banco emisor de la tarjeta, debido a que la fecha de expiracion de la misma estaba errada y ya lo corregi, por favor realizar nuevamente las gestiones de cobro ante el banco emisor de la tarjeta.
:(
La compra - venta - entrega estuvo bien.
Gracias a todas las personas involucradas para poder tener el producto comprado en mis manos.
To their credit, Amazon gave a refund immediately (less return shipping).
Dell Latitude D630 14.1-Inch Notebook PC (Refurbished) was working as expected and arrived in a timely manner as expected.
For some reason her macbook pro was the worst investment she made and within a few day we get this bad boy and its fast , pratical  , up to date and no drama.
Try itself of reporting in 3 times they never answered sound a few thieves received and did not do nigun this sending he is a thief never buy, I hope that it comes to the jail
They are tough on their toys and belongings -- thus far, they have held up well to the stresses an eight and ten year old can dish out.
Will probably go to college with him.
Every once and a wile you will get a lemon, but it makes a difference who you deal with ( what the outcome will be. )
We have tried to reproduce the steps that lead to this infuriating mishap, but we have had zero success in figuring it out.
Upon a succesful boot up (third times a charm, right?)
In the three weeks I had it (really trying to just make do with it) it crashed over thirty times, I finally threw in the towel and returned it.
The HD/3D screen is stunning (vivid and clear picture).
There were three options, one update the warranty information with HP (24-48 hours minimum) then call HP back and attempt to schedule a repair.
7-14 business days).
Which based on new ultra notebooks coming to the market these days - is too short.
From right out of the box it started giving me random blue screen of death (BSOD) errors.
EDIT: Wanted to add that CircuitCity was a great online store to buy this from (and no, I have no association with them).
This computer survived a fall (while closed) from about three feet in the air onto a tile floor and survived unscathed.
It works sporadically (sometimes horribly) when unplugged.
I bought 1 of these for my brother (Birthday) and he said he loved it!I might buy one for myself!!!
Got mine in the middle of Aug 11 and had 1.4G 500G HD and 4G (2X2G) for 100 bucks less.
The hardware had some issues(laptop will not sleep and keeps blinking when lid closed), that were never fully resolved even after sending it out for repair in the first year.
He never for a moment appeared to be interested in knowing the details of what happened or trying to use his brain to figure things out.
This laptop not only has an infra red receiver built in (it can be turned on and off through a remote even) but it was the most stable and dependable computer I ever owned.
I got it for him as he went off to college.
este equipo la verdad es muy bueno lo compre por que tenia uno quizas no sea muy bonito de diseo pero es un caballo de batalla 100% recomendado
Maybe it was just a bad shipment (purchased from Frys).
I bought the 17" Acer (AMD Phenom X4) for myself late last year.
According to Toshiba Customer Relations (and I quote) the "accident was caused by opening the case too hard".
Toshiba said (and I quote), "you could have pulled too hard".
Stick with manufacturers who stand behind their products.
Bought for a 13 year old and he loves it.
After an hour and a half on the phone with Hp "India", they decided it needed to be returned.
Just to let everyone know as of now (July 30,2011) You can buy this same computer or laptop, for $449.00.
However, after removal this seems to a relatively quick laptop (would not characterize it as a "notebook") for the price.
com, specs are 2.1ghz dual core processor and 3 gigs of ram (NOT 6gb!!!)
It was taken out of the box and ready to go in minutes (minus the time it took to set up back up disk and transfer files from old computer).
These issues included random shutdowns, random freezing (completely unresponsive) and periodic slowdowns.
The phone was answered by a man who spoke broken English.
I took them 2 weeks to figure out what the problem was even after i specifically told them what washappening, because the call center person who i spoke to entered the data wrong(even after i repeated it twice)Now since last week i m again having problems with the laptop.
This itself make the laptop complately usless as a laptop (if you have to carry mouse everywhere).
Reference - Serial No.
a) 1st error diagnosed as HDD defective, replaced (Service ref.
B7C1MW0447) and sent back 22July.
b) Our attempt to install OS from recovery CDs failed.
Every time I call, I point out that this is a known issue with 140 *pages* of postings on the Lenovo support website thread (search for "lenovo w520 shutdown", it will be the first result).
2011 they replaced the mother board; on Dec 29th.
While some times Lenovo does not have the "flashy" designs of some competitors, they do have a simple and elegant look.
I choose Lenovo because its a global brand, a Chinese brand, and I travel to China often for work--however getting them to honor their warranty in China is problematic and difficult.
They LOVE their laptops and can stop raving about the HD display (they are not tech savvy enough to know how much more they could rave about!).
The computer just shuts off (without any warning).
(14%)4 USB Ports 1 USB 3.0 3 USB 2.0.
Good Performance: Core i3-380M (2.53ghz)2.
Onboard HD Graphics(Intel)6.
(Sounds Amazing)7.
After multiple phone calls to a call center (where english was a second language and they could only respond to what was written in their script)I was told I would have to replace the keyboard myself.
We looked into just what we wanted for a computer and then asked the advise of a (our) computer repairman (who is very good) on just what we needed and he gave us three computers (laptops) to pick from.
(I am a firm believer in the "every other OS sucks" school of microsoft products).
We have 5 kids, bought these three for our boys and will not hesitate to pick up another two for our two younger girls soon.
The "space" bar sticks, of course thats very annoying (get what you pay for).
About a month ago (the system was only 7 months old) it began to power off after becoming extremely hot on the underside (I am assuming a fan issue of some type).
He plays games on it that take up a lot of memory and they do well
He has no problems with it and it has Microsoft Office so he can do his homework on it.
(ps if you want to play pc games like gta or goat simulator, please look elsewhere)
Actual processing tasks inside the programs (sketchup rendering, for example) are ok,but program loading and boot seem slow.
After only a year, the hinge which is fixed to the base (by screws) broke!
(Base to which the hinge screws are attached - I have added a picture)Now it seems I have to change the whole base Part - 005T5..
(end of summer deal)
:(
Compre hace poco esta portatil, es una de las mejores marcas que e comprado y sobre todo las caracteristicas que posee son muy buenas, mucho rendimiento, es muy rapida y ligera, la mejor compra y opcion en portatiles, el modelo es muy agradable y ejecutiva, muy buen disenio, todo en esta portatil me parece exelente y el precio es muy accesible para lo que compre, me parecio una ganga, recomendado para los que deseen comprar una exelente portatil y con muy buen rendimiento.
Any student going back to school.
El concepto de la maquina esta muy bueno, pero le falt tener software adaptado a la pantalla tactil, por ejemplo uno quiere cerrar una ventana cuesta... uno quiere apretar un boton y presiona otro... deberia de tener un Internet Explorer, Windows Media, etc.
En resumido los programas son los mismos que cualquier maquina.
All I had to do was transition her off of Outlook Express (gag) and onto Google Mail and all has been wonderful so far.
:(My third attempt phone ticket was 2110356786Action: Waiting on an Engineer to reply.
great for those who live in the Google world and already familiar with the "cloud".
He caused his on host of problems but fixed all of the old ones.
Now I was forced to replace it with a new (not dell) laptop one year after purchase whenI normally go 3 years.
She plays bsic games, watches movies and explores the internet and has just discovered facebook.
For example  my vaio has an Ati video cart and it gets hot, while the lenovo keeps a warm temperature during the same applications (gaming).
Tried it with some games and it works wonderful playing Europa Universals 3, The Sims 3, World of Warcraft and Empire: Total War.
The spacing on the keys (similar to Macs and Viaos) are a plus.
In case of a broken link, here are the instructions (copy and pasted from site):Details of the issuedavid@david-Ideapad-Z570:~$ uname -aLinux david-Ideapad-Z570 2.6.38-8-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Mon Apr 11 03:31:50 UTC 2011 i686 i686 i386 GNU/Linuxdavid@david-Ideapad-Z570:~$ lspci |grep Atheros02:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express  rev 01)david@david-Ideapad-Z570:~$ rfkill list0: ideapad_wlan: Wireless LANSoft blocked: yesHard blocked: no1: ideapad_bluetooth: BluetoothSoft blocked: noHard blocked: no2: phy0: Wireless LANSoft blocked: yesHard blocked: yes3: acer-wireless: Wireless LANSoft blocked: yesHard blocked: no4: hci0: BluetoothSoft blocked: noHard blocked: noSolution for the IssueThe following commands will enables wireless till next bootsudo service network-manager stopsudo rmmod acer_wmisudo modprobe acer_wmisudo rfkill unblock allsudo service network-manager startAfter this step the status message in the Network Manager will be "Wireless is disabled"Now Enable wireless from the Network Manager using the following commandssudo rmmod -f acer_wmiWireless networks will be detected and connected.
To make this change permanent usesudo suecho "blacklist acer_wmi" >> /etc/modprobe.
Thanks to David John for sending us the solution
She loves the "face recognition" as her security password, ease of operation, stylish design, clarity of videos, etc.
No soy tnico en computacin, no se si le sobra o si le falta algo, para mi trabajo esta bien,estoy contenta con mi adquisicin.
)Face recognition (for those who like gimmicks)Cons:No USB 3.0No HDMI portThis review comes from someone who has been using a Lenovo W520 for more than a year with Intel Core i7 920XM (extreme), 16 GB Ram, Intel SSD, FIPS certified fingerprint authorization, and some other super-power stuff.
Tips:Install VLC player, disable the smiley dock and face recognition, install k-lite codec, use only Chrome or FireFox, Keep lenovo power manager (seriously good software) and you are golden.
Undesirable pre-set of its 700 GB Hard Drive into two partitions: "C" drive 654GB and "D Lenovo" drive, 28.9 GB, why it is not clear.
Much better to have a single "C" drive and let the user(s) do what they want with it.
(There is a workaround to create a backup image, but that is a very poor way to deal with this issue.)
The 1st was a Frys PC which worked great for the past 6 years (and still does).
She recently started a new job that requires her to have her own lap top.
Poor quality and awful support(third world computer and tech support).
The laptop did not drop the connection any time (this was mentioned by another reviewer as a potential problem).
There is no instruction on how to use the fingerprint reader (probably there is something somewhere on an online manual; yet to find it!).
y el producto es todo lo que esperaba muy bueno y con la descripcion q la pagina especifica!
HP Pavilion dv6-6140us Entertainment Notebook PC (Silver)
It has everything that a college student needs and it can play current modern games on high, and games like Starcraft II on Ultra.
They will constantly overheat and then die a rapid death after the 1 year warranty expires.
Bought this laptop about a year ago, hey people do yourself a favor and just go to best buy(or an actual laptop store ), dont waste you money here.
Finally found the one I liked and it was no longer in stock from Amazon direct ($529) I ended up stumbling across this at Staples for $449 (after a $50 mail in rebate) and then on top of that found a $50 off coupon in the store ad.
Devices:- Hitachi HTS547564A9E384- Intel(R) HD Graphics- hp_CDDVDW_TS-L633J- Intel(R) 5 Series 4 Port SATA AHCI Controller- HP Webcam-101- Synaptics PS/2 Port TouchPad- Ralink RT5390 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter- Realtek PCIe FE Family Controller- Intel(R) Core(TM) i3 CPU M 370 @ 2.40GHz- IDT High Definition Audio CODEC- Intel(R) Display Audio- Intel(R) Management Engine Interface- Intel(R) 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port- Intel(R) 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller
It comes with a super drive ( for all forms of discs incl.
This one is a beauty - the brushed aluminum finish is quite striking and will be forgiving.
I7-2640 Cpu @ 2.80GHz with a turbo boost of 3.5, 8 gigs of ram, terabyte of memory, burns and plays blue ray 3D, nvidia Geforce GT 555m and will play almost any game max settings.
(Go Slow and use scotch tape to hold on to the film while putting in on) PROS= ALL, NEGS= NONE, The Looks of this Laptop, IT IS SO COOL!!
I bought this as a returning college student (over the age of 30).
PROSFast i7 @ 2 GHz (max 2.9 w/ TurboBoost).
Quick boot (30 sec.)
True full HD (1080p).
Cuando observe esta laptop fue la primera ves que hice una compra por internet, y aunque hay muchos pasos que dar para que todo este en orden la tienda Amazon ha hecho que las compras por internet sean faciles agiles y sencillas.
Les digo si vale la pena, lo malo es el procesador es pequeo 1,6 ghz, lastima que no se puede cambiar, por lo dems todo bien
He plays World of Warcraft and there are no issues with the game as far as the laptop goes.
Probe los juegos de Assassins Creed Revelations, Battlefield 3 al maximo las graficas..
God gave us (2) TWO Eyes so that we could see in 3D.
His family only has a desk top and two girls who must share.
I was just a little dissaponted about the Window version (Home premium) but anyways... cant have all in this life i guess.
Soy de Ecuador y llego bien la laptos, la conecte y automticamente comenz casi sola a instalar el programa.
En general es muy buena laptop en funcin del precio, con buenas caractersticas, lo malo en mi caso es que el windows home premium viene en ingles, la caja fue liviana en cuanto al peso y la laptop como tal tambin es bastante liviana, no vino con algn cd de respaldo de windows o programas, todo viene instalado y pre-instalado.
This has been proving extremely annoying and so far the only way I have found (short of disabling touchpad/mouse)is to ctrl+alt+del and then log out and log back in.
It has been a great companion on travel and is rugged enough to take use in the field as I have ballistic programs loaded on it for long distance (1,000 yard) shooting.
As others have stated, the internal clock inevitably runs too quickly (it does not sync with internet time either) and you will probably always be at least an hour ahead of the actual time.
If you can stand having to sync your clock with an internet time server every so often (or modify the task so it does it on its own every few minutes)...
however, somebody broke into ,y house and stole it.
The second generation Intel Core i5 runs with a score of 6.9 and its ram memory at 1333 MHz runs with a score of 7.1 (on a 7.9 basis).
He decided to go with the more "business like" Dell model and I wend for pure specs (within a budget).
Cumple con todas las especificaciones al pie de la letra.
The second generation which is the SandyBrige(newest design intel has come up with so far) design lets your processor work on two things at the same time (hyperthreading technology).
I am not a professional computer programmer; I am just a mom with lots of kids, fulltime college student, small business owner and volunteer addict.
This one(I have had Toshibas in the past.... they seem to get progressively worse).
(Lenovo) I must return.
They shipped a FedEx Express box, and I packed it up and shipped it off (2 day FedEx Express shipping).
Two or three weeks later, I got a blue screen (ignored it first time).
(Can you say awesome deal?)
Computer is fast and has lots of capacity... the problem is that one of the ram memories came damaged computer was crashing after 5 minutes usage, im actually using this computer with only one of the ram memories(came with two one 4gb the other 2gb)... but is not that bad.
He loves it and seeing that is the exact same model as the one I own I can help him out learning the ins-and-outs of the "techy" side of things.
I bought this item (Oct 28, 2011) and had it die a month later.
As of this writing (Dec 21, 2011) I still have not gotten it back.
The fingerprint reader seems to stop working from time to time and only a hard restart (full shutdown/restart) will bring it back to life, but when it works, its really cool.
They way the fix these things - according to the support crew - is by just replacing everything that needs it and unfortunately this usually means that the OS must be re-installed because when parts change, the OS requires it.
It has DUAL graphic cards, a 6620G (512mb dedicated) and 6750M (1gig dedicated) the combination of the two is a 6755G2 in case anyone wants to read the specs up on that.
Kind of strange that it did not come with the original software but since other people did not complain about it I presume it is a one off (my computer was refurbished with 11 months old production date so it may be an early product).
muy buen producto con un precio muy atractivo tambien funciona perfectamente para sus especificaciones todo se hiz dentro de los plazos establecidos
These conflicts only occur when the server shuts down from Micrsoft updates.
It is incredibly light, powerfully built (with a Duralumin shell), and has a stunning screen.
Bought for a friend and she loves it.
The mac did not show finger prints like this one and also this one has some rather sharp edges that can become uncomfortable when typing for a while(the newest series 9 model has a new case that has eliminated this and made the case look the same shape as the Mac).
Her 10 year old VAIO now used by her teens is still going strong.
A great laptop, one of the things it doesnt list is the graphics which is powered by intel hd 3000 (still plan on testing out star wars knights of old republic to see the capabilities of integrated graphics) This laptop runs smooth still getting use the high-def screen which tends to make icons smaller.
Lastly one of the things i liked most about this company is Sony themselves having just retired my three year old sony labtop (still running great) for this one.
friends:danger ; danger!
I then contacted the seller (circuit city) through amazon and never received a reply.
Which can be handy for setting up unique environments for different purposes (video watching, playing tunes, business software use, gaming environment, etc.).
Timeline touts between 9-4 hrs of battery life respectively for casual web browsing to intense multimedia and multitasking (ie games and video watching).
I have owned various laptops in the past 12 years (Dell, Asus, Alienware, Samsung, Apple, toshiba, NEC, Sony TX), and the Vaio Z2 blows everything away.
Great resolution, it is 1920x1080 (VPC-Z216).
In short, Sony claimed that all of the problems with my laptop (less than one year old) were problems that were NOT covered under their "Limited Warranty".
Their repair center has a BBB rating of "F".
I have purchased two of this laptop in 2012 (one for company work and the other for personal work).
She "loves it" her words.
(Hence 4 star)3.
:(Reducing the stars to 3 only.
:O).
Your actual cost is not the out of pocket expense, it is the depreciation hit you take when you sell it in three years (IF you sell it, ever :-)Oh yes, as to 11" versus 13".
Finally, the Sugarsync (cloud) app on Macintosh uses an enormous amount of power top.
Es Apple que se puede decir, la segunda generacin cumple con todos los deberes del da a da, full recomendable, si tienes el cash dele plomo
The newer i7 (Sandy Bridge configuration) is a workhorse!
Estoy maravillado, es la primera vez que decido comprarme una MAC, me quede fascinado por el sistema operativo y la robustes del equipo, muy simple de usar y muy compatible hasta ahora sin ningun problema con otros equipos, impresoras, camaras, smartphones, red etc.
Pros:-to many to list!Waiting for the iphone 5 to be realeased to pair along with mba :)
After 20 years of owning and working with only PC computers I finally (after loving the iPhone) broke down and bought an apple and I am never turning back.
I have only had 1 problem (batter charger died) I took it into apple and they gave me a new one that day.
nor my macbook air.--Like a four year child would do,they block ever attempt to reset my id.
To give you an idea on what I am comparing this to, I purchased (and quickly returned) a Samsung series 9.
Es mi primer intento de pasar a MAC, pero francamente estoy decepcionado... durante la instalacin de arranque, se manifest el "Fallo de Kernel" y no he podido salir del problema.
El servicio al cliente, es inexistente... prob a buscar ayuda en la web y sigo sin respuesta.
Agot todos los procedimientos, recomendados en el manual, sin xito... Es increble que, un equipo costoso y renombrado tenga este tipo de problemas al inicio.
Everything just seems to work together (OS, machine, screen, trackpad and software).
However, before purchasing you should go to an Apple store (or Best Buy, etc.)
Reason why i hate it is  because u guys are totally a disgrace the hard drive is shaking at the back of it when u turn laptop up and down missing four(4) screws to hold hard drive firm in its place.
But after talking to a few friends whom had their macbooks for 2-3 years (i been through 2 in 2 years).
This baby is a beauty a must have for anyone with good ambition.
In both cases I have paid for the repair (for a total of approximately $98 each time).
Nor have they responded to my repeated attempts to engage them in a discussion of my situation.
Lleg en perfecto estado y en la caja original con todos los accesorios.
La entrega rpida y el equipo es lo mejor.
It has a great OS and great built in software ( iSuite ).. Easy to setup, and then begin working on it.
Also, computer was not properly protected with supportive styrofoam or any materials beside loose "peanuts" -- a real pain when you open box and they fly all over the place.
have owned a good number of macs (mostly powerbooks and MacBooks), and this is my absolute favorite.
fast (the SSD is well worth it).
Still learning the new operating system coming from a lifetime of PC (and having a blast doing so).
Apple ensures you feel like you are holding onto a precious metal (aluminum in this case).
Apple MacBook Pro 13.3 (New Version)13-inch: 2.9 GHz2.9GHz dual-core Intel Core i7Turbo Boost up to 3.6GHz8GB 1600MHz memory750GB 5400-rpm hard drive1Intel HD Graphics 4000A++++Highly recommended.....
She has grown up with Apple computers all through high school.
Two problems:shaky because the one pedestal is not at the same level with the other three; intermittent discharging--my hands feel a numbing sensation.
:)
I was not sent the login password for the computer (which is frequently asked for when uploading/downloading new programs).
and decided to change to Mac (now have iPod, iPhone and Macbook Pro).
This one only came with a charger)?
(I sure hope not cuz it is not the case with the PCs).
It is very easy to use(as far as learning how MacOS operates).
The computer runs very quietly (when not playing heavy duty games)!
I have a macbook (2006), an iPad, iPhone and multiple iPods.
I finally took it to an Apple Specialist who evaluated it and said the hard drive was not original and was damaged - two sided tape (rather than a hard drive bridge) was used to hold the hard drive and other components in place, and over time the tape had melted leaving the components to shift around and also leaving a sticky residue - one USB port was not even functional - other components were completely missing - the logic board was damaged -  and on and on.
I get very irritated with heat and fan sound issues, and I have worked(not owned, just worked) on many expensive laptops; all of them have suffered from heat and fan issues.
SHE TAKES TO SCHOOL FITS IN HER SCHOOL BAG AND LOVES IT.
:)
helps him at school and at work.
Tremendo acierto de Apple , aunque un poco costosa para las caractersticas ( poco dd) el diseo es espectacular excelente opcin para viajar
The only moving part (the fan) breaks all the time and it is very noisy.
We already had one (version 2010) and it works like a charm.
(Total accident) These are built to last.
:)
With this product you get exactly what you expect - good build, good screen, one of the best trackpads (if not the best), instant reaction, fast on regular tasks.
I had it for 8 months, and it just passed the out of warranty date (it is a 2012).
The weight of this machine (less than 3 lbs.)
The initial product shipment was defective (hard disk not recognized) so resulted in a week delay before replacement received.
If you ever need help with Amazon (other than returning a product) you can forget about it.
They have perfected the art of not having to deal with you and leave you so frustrated that you will swear never to deal with them again.
Forhet about connecting to that digital tv with hdmi unless that is all yoy want to connect to and then you will give up your ethernet connectivity aince apple, belkin and matrox all forgot to ask "how in this 21st century do users want to "use" their computers.
Sure their are thousands of idiot minded diehard Apple Users; you can see them standing in lines; who are most likely also Obama supporters.
The game here is to train the technology sheep; and then feed them hardware fodder; and once they get their fill; they will follow wherever you take them.
(mostly to their banks to withdraw some more money to hand over)
But for me, who is an average college student, listening to music (on its fantastically clear and loud speakers), surfing the web, streaming Netflix, writing papers and of course multitasking while doing it all.
Excelente ordenador, no pesa nada, super rapido y el Mountain Lion funciona a la perfeccion.
TecMonkey does not stand behind their products and it they fail past 30 days - there is no recourse.
Purchased two Lenova desktops, the monitor went out after 90 days and they refused an solution.
My husband wanted to give one to his brother and his wife and one for us.
However, the computer felt erratic several times (cursor disappeared, computer froze several times).
Beginning of Oct 2013, the computer died after some regular upgrades (including iTunes).
The Apple representative on the phone was completely unprofessional, did not know how to handle a customer (I have knowledge in the area, deal with a lot of them, domestic and international) I will skip all the steps, phone calls and messages at this point.
The keyboard is a little "chunky" with very square keys (not beveled) and the touchpad is more integrated into the casing, with tiny raised dots to indicate where it is by feel.
Ordered it through Galactica (an Amazon store).
Then went to uninstall the first item of bloatware - crash.
Not only is it cute (yes I said cute) but I take it to and from school and to and from work and never had an issue.
The graphics card is more than up to the challenge of playing Diablo 3 beta (which was just opened) and would have no problem running WoW.
Also, the base model comes with a i5 (1.6 Ghz Dual Core Intel processor), while this one comes with an i7 (1.8 Ghz Dual Core Intel processor).
Bought one last year for working at home, watching movies on the internet, and traveling overseas (I do heavy work even when traveling so a tablet is not an option).
Dell has trouble shooted the problem over the phone, sent a technician out to replaced the mother board and adapter 5 times now.
at less than 1,000, you get a second gen i7 sandy bridge with 1gb (upgradable to 2gb) of dedicated graphics.
Details... Intel Core i7, 1080p & Blu-ray Disc (Read/Write).
The Only Difference Is The Processor Speed (2.0 Instead Of 2.2).
Sony VAIO EG2 Series VPCEG26FX/B 14-Inch Laptop (Charcoal Black)I used the computer three times and he died.
Sony "customer service"( a term used loosely) has promised, promised and promised to make it repair and has failed to deliver on every account - changing story every time an inquiry is made - never actually doing anything promised.
The screen is true full HD (1080P).
This is one of the lightest 15" laptops on the market (barely over 4 pounds).
After going through two Toshiba Satellites in the past seven years it was time for a change.
Computer "pooped" out after a year and a half.... blue screen of death .... junk laptop and ZEEMO confirmed sending me an email letting me know I was a "looser" (sic)
I added 4G of RAM (total 8G).
The keyborad dose not feel as good as Thinkpad (but acceptable).3.
The build-in camera has only 30M pixels (barely enough).
I purchased a Portege with prior experience (a Portege with SSD).
This computer is perfect for my son with 500G hard drive for his teenage junk (iTune stuff and more).
Computer shopping can be overwhelming, but the stats on this unit (see comparisons in CNET reviews) made it an easy purchase that did not break the bank.
(Not much of a gamer, just Brood War and LoL).
Volume Control - In this day & age - they dont have a simple single button for volume control - u hv to do it in conjunction with function key or something more complicated(yet to figure out after having the laptop for over 4 months!!)Really??
Sound - has really bad default sounds & music set up (eg.
Es justamente lo que se pidi, el tamao es ligero, es un modelo elegante y las caractersticas de hardware son ideales para trabajo en casa/oficia, el precio tambin fue increible en comparacin con otros productos de similares caractersticasGracias
Apart from the fact that i bought this at $739 and then the price suddenly dropped to $649 (loosing $90).
My 13 year old can happily play his online computer games and can also use it for word processing (the software of which did not come with the laptop regretably).
com/#/watch?v=SNTS2brEr4c&desktop;_uri=%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DSNTS2brEr4cAMAZON SHOULD COMPLETELY REMOVE THIS ITEM FROM THEIR STOCK... since Toshiba is a ghost company... they DONT EXIST!!!!....
A friend of mine also has this machine and uses it for graphic heavy financial technical analysis and it has performed wonderfully for him as well.
She was able to set it up completely on her own, and has been using it often.
The Toshiba laptop was a gift for my son, who lives in Las Vegas.
He was thrilled with the computer and found everything in order - and it was very easy to set up .
la laptop esta muy versatil, el diseo muy agradable y los componentes internos son muy buenos se diria que exelentes recomendable la laptop saludos.
Un computador excelente y que se adalpta a las necesidades de un profesional.
It may not be great for someone doing a lot of gaming; but she uses it mainly for school work, drawing with her graphics tablet, some photo editing, and the usual online activities (facebook, chat, email, ect.
And worse, do not live in united states.
The only complaint (just cause I feel obligated to write one) is that this version does not have a special player for movies like the previous one I had.
In December, Toshiba posted a "critical update".
:)  The case of the computer has an interesting finish on it, textured, not smooth.
Muy bien todo, el producto llego en excelente estado a mi pas, y por ende el producto cumpli con las especificaciones mencionadas en la oferta.
La adquiri porque queria cambiar mi antigua laptop, pense que seria un poco mas pesada y mejor acabado sin embargo no esta mal, hasta ahora no he tenido ningun problema es justo lo que buscaba, cualquier cosa la comentare de nuevo por aca para los demas lectores.
Excelente computador, es sumamente rpido, la batera tiene un muy buen rendimiento, los grficos son excelentes, estoy muy contento con mi laptop, la recomiendo al 100%.
The AMD A8 processor is a solid performer and the integrated graphic card (built in to the CPU) handles most things very well.
If you are a "hardcore gamer" you will want a laptop with a separate graphic card (discreet graphics) but you will also want to spend roughly twice the amount of money as well.
And what the guy above me wrote, too, haha ;)
excelente producto muy buena maquina camina super bien se las recomiendo el modern warfare 3 camina super bien hasta los momentos sin queja alguna
The laptop has the right amount of RAM and hard drive space to make college work (and play) easy to handl.
Last one while my son was in the middle of a major college project.
This is the best Dell I have ever owned (and I have owned more than 5).
By default, the lights are "dim" (aka... unreadable) when you power it up.
(This thing is solid as a rock!)
Excelente Producto es sumamente rpida y completa la batera tiene una duracin casi que eterna y la relacin de peso y dimensin es muy cmoda.
My daughter uses it for her studies, some entertainment and social networking.
Bought one of these for someone who is in the IT field and is mobile - he absolutely loves it.
Great price (50 dollar gift card for a total of 499.99.)Lightweight.
During setup I partitioned the backup drive way to big (500GB) mistake.
:)
5 STARS BASED ON THE LAPTOP COST*****************PROS*********************Windows 7 x64 home premium*3GB, Expandible to 8GB*AMD Radeon HD 6320 graphics with 384 MB - 1459 MB (not a gamer laptop but you sure can run some PC games with higher graphics such as Tomb Raider Underworld)*15.6 inch display trubrite LED with native 720P resolution do the work for movies and HD videos.
es perfecto buen precio el producto en buen estado bien embalado con todos los accesorios no falto nada asi se atiende a un cliente
Muy agusto con mi laptop, lo mejor de todo es el teclado numerico, excelente para el trabajo con excel, la laptop cubre todas mis necesidades basicas.
Realmente una buena oportunidad la recomiendo 100% si lo que se busca es economia, el equipo tiene un performance bastante aceptable obviamente no he tenido tiempo de exigirle mucho pero lo poco me ha gustado.
battery life is pretty bad; about two (2) hours max on a full charge, but other than that winning!
We "carried" her to our dinner table and she joined us in prayer and food.
However once installed applications load fast and are responsive (AutoCad, MatLab, Maple, Labview).
It can run his new favorite game: Skyrim without a problem.
However the drivers are a crime against humanity.
Efectivamente en prestaciones es un muy buen porttil pero para mi gusto tiene una falla grave y es que es una laptop extremadamente endeble.
Siempre he utilizado Dell y esta es la primera vez que tengo una HP y la diferencia es abismal.
Las laptop Dell mini (tengo la 1012) pueden ser mas pesadas que esta pero su construccin es mucho mejor.
Esta porttil la tomas entre las manos y se escucha crujir el plstico como si se fuera a romper e inclusive se ve claramente como se dobla.
Es un buen laptop si se va a dejar en la casa y en un solo sitio pero no creo que de resultados como porttil para llevarla a todos lados.
Por lo general es bastante buena, excelente pantalla y bastante rpida y eso de que se caliente mucho en realidad es verdad.
Por cierto, me llego con un golpe en uno de los laterales de la batera pero esto no ocasiono daos a la misma y funciona sin problemas.
:)
;)
This computer was a steal :)
(due diligence, caveat emptor, etc.)
When she opened hers an plugged into the power, he computer would not turn on.
Most driver updates have to come stright from HP instead of their site (example : the drivers for the 6770HD graphic).-Other Thoughts: Package came fast, and wonderful support from HP that makes you realize they really care about their products.
Bueno les cuento que despus de buscar y buscar y comparar un modelo tras otro me decid por comprarme este modelo HP Pavilion dv6-6180us Entertainment Notebook PC - Gray, Apenas lo estoy abriendo.
Sin embargo, en el poco tiempo que la he usado djenme decirles wowwwww si que es rpida.
Con respecto al envio lo colocaron en una caja un poco grande en comparacin en la que viene de fabrica(HP)y le colocaron muchas bolsas de aire ;( en fin, lleg en muy buen estado.... Continuar..... Actualizacin 08-09-2012Recomiendo ampliamente esta laptop.
Lamentablemente no les puedo dar mas detalles porque ya no la tengo, por razones de los amigos de lo ajeno :(
The only issue is that it came with a partition (geeks like doing that).
No tengo palabras para describir lo magnifico que este equipo, me gusta mucho ya que su amplia pantalla de 15.6 pulgadas te permite tener una buena vista de lo que alli se proyecte sin tener que forzar mucho la vista, su potente procesador en conjunto con su memoria ram hacen de este equipo una bestia de procesamiento siendo este apenas un core i3, no quiero imaginar lo que haria un core i7.
no he tenido dificultad alguna al momento de instalar algun programa, ha tenido una buena compatibilidad con los programas que le instalado.
siendo una bateria nueva rinde mucho (4 horas y medias).
Compre y he traido a venezuela a  traves de un sistema puerta a puerta y me he ahorrado mucho si hubiese tenido que comprarla aqui.
new battery still goes a long (4 hours and half).
The screen is clear and bright and the Intel HD 3000 video is everything needed for everyday use (of course this is not a gaming machine).
One of these went to my 10 year old son and he can play internet based games like Minecraft and Roblox with ease and with good video response.
Sending in for repairs (had to pay shipping) and will see where that gets me.
Es de buena calidad tal como lo describen en las especificaciones del producto.
The product overall is built nicely and is "completely aluminum" compared to other products advertised as such (Samsung series 7).
This was never built as a gaming rig but to be able to take a break from coding and kick some terran ass for a few is a welcome treat.
And for a pretechie student, thats the ace in the hole.
Purchased this for my son, who is a soldier in the Army.
Sony VAIO VPCEG33FX/W 14-Inch Laptop (White)Sony VAIO VPCEH34FX/B 15.5-Inch Laptop (Black)Sony VAIO VPCEG33FX/B 14-Inch Laptop (Black)Sony VAIO VPCEG34FX/B 14-Inch Laptop (Black)The biggest negative with Vaio is the  lack of availability of 3rd party repairs/parts.
Estoy encantada con mi Sony es realmente linda, y funciona de maravilla.
la recomiendo plenamente y si les gustara personalizarla sugiero que adquieran las fundas de piel para el teclado, yo me compre la verde fosforesce y es genial.
He can play SWTOR, Skyrim, ME3 and a few other newer games with no problem (and do school work).
Ive had a couple small problems with this series over the years (camera quit - didnt miss it, battery gives out a year into owning my first one).
Differences vs typical rog g74sx-xxxx-2GB of VRAM instead of 3GB-128 Bit instead of 256-2D vs 3D Panel-1600x900 instead of 1920x1080 Panel-No Bluetooth-No Blu-ray-Smaller HDDs (500s instead of 750s)
The response time from the seller (who lives on the opposite side of the United States) was remarkable fast, especially as we had a major holiday in the middle of the mailing back and forth.
From off, the laptop booted to a clickable (no hourglass) desktop in 1 minute 30 seconds.
I called and sent it to Samsung (they provided UPS label); they returned it stating it had been fixed.
The power cord is heavy (as they all seem to be).
We bought this laptop to replace a six year old Acer (Win XP).
Hola, estoy muy contento con la mquina, muy linda y en exelentes condiciones, bien rapida y la pantalla de 17" esta super para juego y videos.
(Any suggestions will be greatly appreciated!)
Es una muy buena compra, la pantalla tiene muy buena resolucion, es liviana, las aplicaciones por el momento trabajan bien con respecto a edicion de video.
El teclado es comodo, sin numeros, webcam y microfono bien, reconocimiento facial trabaja bien aunque es mas rapido ingresas por contrasea.
Los 2 unicos 2 problemas son:En las especificaciones dice 4 GB RAM 1x4GB, y en realidad son 4 GB RAM 2x2GB, entonces para aumentar la RAM toca cambiar de memoria.
Viene con Windows 7 Home 64 Bits y en esta version no puedes cambiar el idioma, solo puedes cambiar en Windows 7 Ultimate y el upgrade cuesta como 130 dolares mas, pero si lo vas a utilizar solo en ingles funciona perfecto.
Listo creo que es una muy buena compra esta Laptop, si no vas a aumentar la memoria RAM y la trabajas en ingles es de 5 estrellas, como yo voy a aumentar RAM y preferia en espaol le doy 4 estrellas.
According to Toshiba spec sheet for this model shows i5-2430M CPU which provides 2.4GHz (3.0GHz with Turbo Boost Technology).
Excelente articulo, cumple con todas las necesidades que deseo de un laptop, llego muy puntual, incluso antes de la fecha esperada, excelente servicio.
Purchased in December of 2011 and crashes (black screen) on February 5th, 2012.
He did not accept return of the computer.
He took my money and when the laptop was defective he did not take his "junk" back and send a new computer.
Does not show fingerprints ( they are there.. you just cant see them :-)Tools like K10Stat allow you to overclock / undervolt the APU.
The seller (electronix depot) was also prompt to ship it on time as said.
This computer will sell between $450 and $650(do some online research).
The Toshiba would go into hibernate mode when lowered 90% of the way(the wife likes you to show some respect by closing the laptop).
The video itself is good for 4Gb Ram, but high end gamers will not agree with the graphics(they usually do custom computers).
This noise does not occur when playing a DVD movie, and movie glitches did not occur).
It looks like Toshiba is trying to address the problems consumers have had in the past(including me).
Now the worse: for the hardware (an i5 M480) it is a low price machine at around $450 (sale price), but it is by now means a low end laptop; so how can it be explained that such machine did not even come with a LED for the CAPS LOCK key.
They know they have a problem, but they are choosing to make customers angry instead.
Her exact words were "only like if a plug came undone inside the unit".
Will be trying a video game soon to see how the video card is.
(They tried to tire me out to pay for this, not doing anything about it.)
Toshiba Portege Z835-P360 13.3-Inch Ultrabook (Silver) is a great gift for a good friend.
bought this Toshiba  months ago since it broke, hard-drive crashed and when it was send back under warranty - Toshiba held it for over a month before fixing it.
(2) Harddrive is not very large.
Toshiba Portege Z835-P370 13.3-Inch Ultrabook (Silver)
A lot of useless programs installed (third part and toshiba).
My old computer lasted for days on stand by, this one I do not know.. :-(.
She will use it for school projects, etc.
thanks jsm computers kids love the computer:)
My problem was (after being on the phone with one of their associates for well over an hour) someone had unplugged the internet card.
He does all the social stuff and his home work with it too.
:)
Support takes it back for 19 days and it comes back with the same problem (You have to ship it and they ship it back).
Called Samsung,was told to do a "basic" recovery, did it, laptop stop booting, end of the story.
Pros:- Thin and light (well not very light but light enough)- A lot of ports.
I did a quick google search and found a few other people who have had problems with their power supply "suddenly" coming loose to have the same problem I did, but I was having it straight out of the box.
Next came HP envy Spectre (A very eye catchy laptop).
Then I saw Samsung Series 9 2012 model and purchased it from B&H; for $1299 ( this was on Sale for 1 day).
Cons (but not deal breakers)- Charging Cord.
You can remove the factory recovery partition(20GB) as there is recovery CD in the box.
The Series 9 is light and solid (aluminum unibody).
es un moustro de maquina, lindo diceo rapides increible,lo mas novedoso a esta fecha ,los juegos corren bien y la pantalla  se ve muy claro
Compre esta portatil para mi esposa que queria actualizarse a una nueva portatil, guiandome de los comentarios de otros compradores, ademas ella siempre me ha comentado sobre el excelente soporte tecnico que ofrece Dell.
El producto llego a tiempo, le encanto, y es de rapida y sencilla configuracion.
el vendedor es recomendable 100%, me atendio siempre que lo necesite, la computadora llego antes de la fecha indicada, y es una muy buena computadora estoy feliz de mi compra.
Intel Core(tm) i3-2350M Processor (2.3GHz)2 USB 3.01 USB 2.06GB installed memory500GB Hard Drive14.0" HD WLED True-Life (1366x768) with webcam8X CD/DVD Burner (Dual Layer DVD+/-R Drive)Intel Centrino Wireless-N 1030 with Bluetooth8-in-1 Media Card Reader6-Cell, LION, Primary BatteryDimensions 19.09" (L), 4.29" (W), 13.31" (H), 6.57 lbs.
Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium, (64Bit)1 year limited warrantylaptop is actually 5.15 lbs
la compre para mi hermana .. ella queria una que sea buena.. opte primero por el precio en comparacion con mi pais esta super economica y de sus caracteristicas ni que hablar... elegante y practica..
Exelente maquina muy rapida , solo le veo una falla y es por la tarjeta de video es integrada y por eso algunos programas de autodesk no corren , de lo demas exelente
My only complaint is a missbehaving letter "I" key, whose spring does not return it to its "rest" position every time I use it (even though it still works).
producto excelente se adapta a la necesidad,  como si fuera parte de uno, vendedor confiable, excelente, entrega rpida y a la hora, nada mas que decir .
Una muy buena computadora para trabajar, tiene todo, y el precio sper bien.
Estoy suscrito a AmazonPrime, y el tiempo de entrega fue cumplido segn lo establecido
(Search for "fan noise Dell XPS" on the internet.)
He left message because I did not respond his call he could not come to my home and I should schedule another time.
It did all of that for the entire first year.... unfortunately 1 year and 1 day following my purchase (right after my 1 year warranty expired) the keys on the mouse pad broke.
They lost a lot when they became Lenovo and it took a while for it to happen.
They saved 25 cents for metal sleeves to force people to buy new computers soon after warranty runs out.
They finally agreed to send an onsite technician to replace the hard drive (which is what our warranty stated it would do).
The tech even suggested that perhaps we had used them before & somehow damaged them & then said he had no way of telling whether we had used them or not.
Three weeks ago (2 weeks out of Lenovo warranty) the hard drive crashed.
Excelente producto, llego en la mejores condiciones, funciona de maravilla, la bateria es de larga duracion; encantado con el articulo, muchas gracias
Easily compared to other friends computers from the IOS world with equal results and half.. no third the money of the others topped out version.
sony gives me no immediate solutionexcelente equipo, funciona a la perfeccion y el diseo muy hermoso, me llego a tiempo, solo tengo un problema a los 3 mese y 5 dias de su uso el equipo me dejo de funcionar ya no prende ni hace nada y por estar fuera del pais me han informado que no puedo reclamar la garantia.
(This one).
It also is powerful enough to play some fairly complicated video games, such as Rome Total War.
OO1).
It carries the AMD A6-3420M (4 core).
They work just fine and meet all the needs the children have for school work assignments.
Ya tengo un ao con mi lapto Asus y es excelente, el peso perfecto para trasladarla de mi casa a la oficina.
El mouse es perfecto, la calidad de la imagen en pantalla es limpia y no molesta en la vista en ningun momento.
El nico cambio que le hara es el sitio donde se conecta la corriente, que se encuentra a mano izquierda del teclado, yo lo prefiero en la parte de atrs, donde generalmente lo tienen todas las laptos.
Color (red) is exactly what I want.
(My husband recently bought a laptop from another manufacturer--that also starts with A--and the touchpad is very poorly designed, which causes him no end of frustration.)
The main reason for buying it was to do school work, writing papers, and social media.
The tech claimed they replaced "parts" - what a joke again!As soon as I tried to turn it on, the SAME "HDD Error message"!
Hope Samsung keeps up with the drivers (especially the NVIDIA 675m as currently the driver is only available from laptop manufacturers and not NVIDIA) given they are a new comer to the gaming laptop market.
For Samsung creating their first gamer computer they showed everyone else up ( dells alienware) the other one I looked at.
SIMPLY AMAZINGSo many features that yet have not completley taken advantage of all of them.... No one who starts dealing with a Samsun laptop can change his mind: Samsung forever
if so, did you do a clone using what software and what ssd do you suggest (looking at least 250gig).
Video is amazing sharp (when use in correct battery plan).
not even going to bother with their support - this is going back to the vendor.
Only 3G of the 4G expansion of ram is recognized for a total of 5G (of 6G) ram total.
No need to spend money on a fruit(wink)
The SSD does give adequate space (but not enough for someone who wants a lot of music and movies).
I send email to B&E; Crop, and he no response, so yesterday I submit a return item request, and today he give me a response said that the "Expiration of returns period".
It is so fast to start up - it is so much better than our other (traditional) laptop.
Comments/ Suggestions are welcome... HP Folio 13-1020US 13.3-Inch Ultrabook (Steel Gray)
Just trying to type this review the cursor has relocated itself, and suddenly you find you have inserted a fragment of your most recent keystrokes into some point back in what you had previously typed (and hopefully proofread).
Es tal cual la describen, excepto por la duracion de las baterias que realmente duran como maximo 5 horas.
Dsepite the fact that i bought 2 pices of this laptop, the seller (BLINQ) gave a false description of the products, shipped someting entirely different from what was ordered for.
I have played Modern Warfare 3, Dawn of War II, Civilization V, Supreme commander 2, and TF2 without any issues.
Well you can go to Windows Explorer (file manager) and you can go to your My documents folders and you can see your "Kids" folder (as an example) but if you write a word document and then go to save it, the "kids" folder within your My documents folder cannot be seen.
My 15 year old son loves this, uses for gaming and school.
Fue decepcionante apenas la encend y duro varios minuto encendida luego se apago y ya no quiso prender mas....... y resulta que perdi mi dinero
The graphic is strong, it capable to play NBA 2K12 and MW3!-2 headphone jacks, awesome.
Cuando compre el producto revise la descripcion del producto y donde dice la informacin del producto indica lo siguiente:* Product FeaturesAMD A110 Processor 2.4GHz (4MB Cache)* Product InformationFeaturesAMD A110 Processor 2.4GHz (4MB Cache)En la parte de especificaciones dice:* SPECIFICATIONSProcessor: VISION A6 Technology from AMD with AMD Quad-Core A6-3420MAccelerated ProcessorCuando llego la PC, veo en las propiedades de la computadora y dice:AMD A6-3420M APU with Radeon(tm) HD Graphics 1.5 GHZEl producto es de 1.5Ghz de velocidad y no de 2.4 Ghz como indican.
?He buscado informacin y encontre que este procesador de 1.5GHZ llega a 2.4 GHZ en velocidad turbo, pero cmo se hace eso???
sometimes (not very often) the screen will flicker white lines at random this only happened once in a week of use.
and the 6 gigs of ram is very nice, (upgradeble to 16).
For example, the sound often glitches, movies often glitch (even played straight from the harddrive), and many basic aspects of the computers performance dont work properly.
excelente equipo 100% funcional y operativo recomendado, la compra llego al momento indicado excelente servicio nuevo de paquete muy bueno en cuanto al precio
She does a lot of her work on it and we have had it for several years now.
* Up and Down arrow keys (too small)
I have to get use to the tiny words (cause I am old :).
Just know when you order a new computer that is customized (from any vendor, Dell or HP), make sure you have a back up for that time you may be without a computer.
Estoy de viaje por USA, junto con mi hijo de 17 aos.
Queramos un notebook, que nos permitiera estar conectados con nuestra familia por correo, respaldar las miles de fotos que estamos tomando, leer diarios de nuestro pas, foros y redes sociales, etc.
Elegimos un notebook de este tamao de pantalla por el peso y tamao.
A con man specialized sales should withdraw.
i then bought an anti glare screen to help with the glare(3 M)it helped somewhat.
However, we did encounter the same issues on the color "RED" being displayed as "ORANGE" basedd from the other reviews of HP Envy 15 owner and users :(Hope to get color issue fixed at once by HP.
the sound quality and over all volume "Beats" (no pun intended) all other competitors.
Maria ZernaEcuadorEcuadorHP ENVY 15-3040NR 15.6 Inch Laptop (Black/Silver)
Then after it gets really hot (usually about 30 min) the game crashes.
This computer is comparable for casual users like us (email, reading news, shopping, some word processing), except for the stiff/ unresponsive trackpad.
Screen aspect ratio (16:9).
Samsung puts a Windows key between Fn and Alt (Ctrl, Fn, Windows, Alt).
I sent one back to get a refund, purchased one from a different seller (also through Amazon) and it had the same problem out of the box.
Including The Elder Scrolls Skyrim, Fallout New Vegas, Black Ops 2, Battlefield 3, Gta Iv and Saints Row III
2nd Repair guy said they do see a lot of broken jacks with this model and he recc trying to fix before junking.
Repaired it (epoxy to reinforce it) for only $75.
Need press two keys ("fn" + "inc" or "dec") to inc / dec volume.
We needed a laptop for a young man going to college, and decided to use Amazon because they always come through.
exelente computador , muy rapida los graficos son buenos ,el sonido para al escuchar msica o ver peliculas es espectacular
Toshiba Satellite L755D-S5162 15.6 -Inch Laptop (Silver)
She is a uni student and having the laptop now enables her to send her assigments via email and take the laptop with her to classes.
He was delighted that his online games from Steam run perfectly.
(it just did).
(ofcourse you need to get network drivers from the toshiba site beforehand).
I then started to tell him that was unexceptable and he said goodby and hung up.
esta computadora la compre para una hermana y ella  quedo maravillada,me agradecio  mucho que le alla servido de intermediario para obtener este equipo
It might not stand up to the heavy, constant abuse that a college student might inflict, but for  8 to 10 airline flights a year it is perfect.
Not only do they outsource EVERYTHING, they will not take ownership of ANYTHING, nor will they let you talk to ANYONE when you call corporate.
I am loving it as of now(been about 3 weeks) and i hope to write another review a few months from now.
The keyboard is nicely laid out with a practical amount of space between the keys (to ward off those nasty double-letter hits).
Both my friend and I bought these from the Microsoft Store (one in Arizona one in Virginia) during the 2011 end of the year sale.
Good thing is that you get a 1 year Acer warranty that pays for shipping and repair costs (takes about 10 days).
Other than the risk of motherboard failure (lol), its a great machine.
even the Graphic cards is very very powerfull (Guildwars 2 player here).
nice to use with a DAW (EDM Producer and DJ) good performance with Traktor Pro 2.6 and FL Studio 10 with many plug ins and automation clips on a track.
Three (3) months after purchasing the computer the screen decided to go black.
(Go UK!)
The screen goes black (sleep) and needs restarting.
com/8301-13727_7-57616121-263/2013-macbook-air-black-screen-woes-continue/Summary:On any mid-2013 MBA (11" or 13"), when system is idle long enough to dim the display/go to sleep, the screen fades to black.
Let system idle and wait for display to dim (based on power settings).2.
Just a tip for those transitioning from Outlook to Mac Mail - use an app called Mail Monkey.
She loves it as does her husband who created a great iMovie on it.
Was contacted by an Apple engineer who made me run a diagnostic and send it to him.
He said he would help me-never heard from him again.
The Macbook Air is the perfect piece of technology for college students, such as myself, who need to have a laptop on them at all times (NOT A TABLET) but cannot stand carrying around a big chunky computer on top of all our books.
One CAVEAT and that is that non iOS devices are being programmed (often) in favor of iOS devices.
However, the new MBA boasts all day battery life: 11 inch (9 hours) and 13 inch (12 hours).
If you are debating between 128GB and 256GB (or custom order 512GB from Apple), consider cloud storage.
The only way to get it to "wake up" again is by doing a hard reboot.
This is what laptop manufacturers wanted when they set out to create portable computing devices (phones not included).
A Macbook Air these days will do anything you throw at it - Photoshop, Word, Excel, Outlook, Quickbooks, Premier, Games, you name it... AT THE SAME TIME.
The HD5000 video supports up to 2560-by-1600 resolution and with a tiny Thunderbolt to HDMI adapter you can use any HDMI monitor  (Tera Grand - Premium Mini DisplayPort / Thunderbolt to HDMI Adapter).
(Maybe a 13" model, though)
In youth (1983), I used the Cp-500 system (Zilog ax-81).
Then, i migrated to the revolutionary Msx (I loved that computer: very common in Japan and Brazil).
...).
Latest  used version: XP (Intel Core i5).
This year (2014) I decided to try the Macbook Air Excellent.
After not having a Mac for 15 years - my university only supports PCs and my Lenovo has been nothing but trouble in terms of crashing, viruses, you name it.
whether your a pixar 3d animator or an evil scientist trying to take over the world this computer will swallow up any of those task.
Cons: (so far) Heats up comparatively faster than other laptops.
simplemente la mejor computadora que haya tenido, muy satisfecho por algo soy fantico de apple y es que sus productos son de primera..!
He loves it and the capability it has enabled him to achieve.
Es mi 3ra laptop y defininitavemente son las mejores a nivel mundial.
Cada vez mejoran los detalles de fabricacin.
We upped the RAM to 16 GB (just because).
My daughter was heading back to school and needed to take it with her.
After two (2) trials of delivery, you will have to go get it your self.
Updated:Samsung Electronics MZ-7PD128BW 840 Pro SeriesCorsair Vengeance 8GB (2x4GB) DDR3 1600 MHz
:)
Now my Mac Book wants a iMac ;)
Is capable of running windows( parallel, or fusion) for those not familiar with OSX.
He quoted that "The Fonts look horrible".
com - Keishidojo (Bjj/MMA commercial, Jiu-Jitsu Fight Team, Reece, and the Youth Grappling Team) videos.
:))))
After getting sick and tired off all the blue screens, the (what seemed like daily) updates, and the OS lock ups, we decided to give the Mac world a chance.
)CONS: Price is a bit ridiculous, kinda heavy (but not to bad by any means.
Will use when she goes off to school this fall, to North Western University.
:-)
I bought this MacBook Pro for my son (6th grade, he payed for most of it) and he absolutely loves it.
:)
(there is on problem with the headphone and earphone.)
hopefully the "bright people" posting other versions of this mbp in this listing can figure out how to make a listing for the specs they are selling and can stop trying to cheat people.
I primarily use the computer for school, but it can easily handle extensive tasks (video editing, photoshop etc.)
I was surprised to discover that this machine can do gaming also, it runs League of Legends and Team Fortress 2 at 60 FPS on the native 1280x800 resolution.
This version of MacBook Pro runs on a third-generation CPU ("Ivy Bridge"), not the latest fourth-generation Haswell CPU the 2013 version has.
The MacBook air with the Haswell CPU (which is what he evidently bought) has been available for far longer than the MacBook Pro with Haswell (introduced only about 1 month ago).
(Originally $1,199), which trumps the student discount offered by Apple, widely believed to be the best deal around....
Added memory (very easy).
She loves her MacBook pro.
Changed the memory from 4 GB to 8 GB Corsair Vengeance and 500 GB HDD (5400 rpm) with Seagate hybride 750 GB HDD+SSD.
The first was a Apple 2E (I believe from 1985) .
LlllllllllllllaNow is the time foe all good men to come to the aid of their country.
No big difference with olders models (five years ago) The Speed almost The same.
it is the difference between chaos (life with a pc) organization (life with a mac).
My older son talked his younger brother into getting a macbook to replace his 2.5 year old laptop that was giving him problems again.
They claim in the phone message that they are one of the largest companies.
He loves his Christmas gift.
My son loves his new Mac.
He takes it to school for assignments and actually looks forward to doing homework.
Excelente Macbook Pro, estoy muy satisfecho con la compra y el precio.
El tiempo de envo y el soporte brindado fueron muy gratificantes.
configurable a espaol, potente, fluida con varias aplicaciones al mismo tiempo, los materiales de construccin son simplemente hermosos, el sistema operativo  es muy bueno  fcil de utilizar.
The graphics are capable of driving HD displays at 1920x1080 (1080p), with a small graphics adapter to HDMI.
Great for students for their studies and as a media center in the dorm.
Siempre he tenido Mac y esta en especial tiene buen prosesador, yo trabajo con Logic Pro y Final Cut y anda muy bien con ambos programas, Estoy muy contento con la compra.
Once it even hung while attempting to draw the login box just after power up.
Search for - " Apple MacBook Pro MD101LL/A 13.3-Inch Laptop - UnBoxing (2013 Non Retina)  " uploaded by Chinmay
I like the feel of this computer & hope this will last me through the rest of my days (@ 78+, age becomes an issue).
( I still like windows as it keeps me employed -- thanks for the job Bill.)
Its more for students, artists, and people who like everything preset for them.
Apple is concentrating too much of its time and resource on its consumer division (Iphone, ipad) and is beginning to neglect its professional customers.
Got this for my Kid for CollegeShe love itreplaced her older one that i now use :-)Get one you wont go wrong
Nevertheless we did :-).
needless to say he is in love with his new computer.
I personally have mine set to the highest "scaled" resolution (1920 x 1200), which was the native resolution on the 17" MBP before it was discontinued.
It sports an incredible display, the ability to connect up to three external displays at the same time (tested and it works), and extreme speed.
psd).
I have had to reboot at least once each day as the cursor (track pad) goes unstable.
I also like the possibility to use cmd, line in familiar environment (I am old Unix guy).
Pros:- The improvement in speed due to better hardware spec (CPU, memory, SSD,...) is a given.
Duh :)- Retina display.
CRISP even when its set to the lowest (biggest fonts) resolution.
This gets warm to hot often and considering its spec (quad core) it is understandable but it is not lap-able.
Thanks,Senthil ([...])
Entre as muitas vantagens que este computador tem em comparao com tantos outros existentes no mercado, para mim,  a maravilhosa resoluo do ecr, o desenvolvimento do processador e a durao da bateria.
Highly recommend - if you can afford it (pricey).
Amazons vetting department is a law unto themselves, will not communicate and will still not remove the hold despite the bank assurances there is no reason.
Awesome for reading text(except to spend million hours on Quora reading Q/A) and coding.
Even the macbook air (2010) model, got the fans to start spinning when downloading applications.
The graphics are too weak for serious tasks (hd editing, games, etc.)
It will appeal mainly to people who want a powerful but portable laptop that has high end finishes (high resolution display and SSD).
Purchased this for my husband (musical creator), he absolutely would not use anything else to create pictures, music and presentations.
Something like an Average looking guy would feel towards a handsome hunk in school, just wondering how and why females drool over him, what does he have other than a face like a Greek god and hair like strands of gold.
But the biggest irony follows when you find out that the hunk is a really nice, fun guy to be with and u become best friends the first time you get to know each other.
i do a lot of programming, gaming( borderlands, portal, Bioshock Infinite, etc) and this hyper threaded quad core i7 processor handles it almost without breaking a sweat.
Mac has some key features: being able to drag-and-drop anything from an application to another without needs of worrying it crash suddenly (which happens quite often on Windows for me), great task management with Expos and Spaces.
Microsoft Office Professionals, Adobe Master Collection)Design:MacBook has the full aluminum casing sporting a pretty silver color, slim and sleek body design.
You can always trust Apple:-).
The best way to fix this is reducing the display resolution to 1440 x 900 (ie making the pixel count a uniform half of the maximum).
He is interested in persuing a career in film and he said this was just the laptop he needed.
I decided to try a Macbook Pro(13"/8G/256G) instead.
There was an anxious moment (first 2 weeks after its release) since its keypad sometimes locks the system.
She had to get a player driver for her pictures.
Since she bought another MacBook for herself we decided to return it.
There are a few things that I dislike ; it comes loaded with software that they promote (stupid games) and the battery life doesnt seem that great.
Dell Inspiron i15N-2728BK 15.6-Inch Laptop (Black)
un poco lenta la maquina, al igual que viene con Windows 7 home premium, solo en ingles nada de espaol u otro idioma.
We travelled overseas with new laptop and now in complete mess, struggling to get support in other country.
Needless to say, she is spending her time in the computer lab to complete class assignments.
The front plastic cover is partly detouched from the back aluminiun on the sides (near the left and right hindges).
Asus has not achknolwedged their mechanical / engineering little yet critical error (you can find more on this on various websites).
However, this has been a serious setback for ASUS since asus is not willing to fix it (even though the laptop is just over a year old).
Rest is all OS and recovery).- Glass Panel (Gives you a feel that you may break it someday)- Overpriced.
(1 start knocked out for this)- Slow boot time from shutdown (approx 24 seconds).
(Or Mac owner).
It can be a struggle to open it, with no indentation or identified spot to lift the lid (annoying!)2.
)Am taking 1 star out for1.
The second problem is that the computer will not change volume through the hardware interface when using anything made by adobe (like youtube).
com/Zenbook-UX31E-DH52-13-3-Inch-Ultrabook-Aluminum/dp/B005SY32Q2/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid;=1339369625&sr;=8-1&keywords;=UX31-RSL8) a few months back.
Her employer put it through the paces to see if it met their standards  Everyone at her job was amazed how well it performed that they made it the standard for all the  employees..
The one thing her employer liked the most was the battery life ( 9.5 hrs.)
On her first day she reported having  48% power left at the end of the day.
The blue-tooth is great the hard drive is 500 gigs ( for a net-book that is just great), and the version of Windows is 64-bit home premium.
(2 dells, a gateway, and this HP)I wanted to buy a Hewlett Packard because my friend had one that I liked.
This PC comes with SRS Premium Sound(r), which enhances the sound before it is delivered to the speakers.
Also, Microsoft ClearType (preinstalled) makes text look as if it was printed on a piece of paper.
Trackpad(mouse) - The trackpad can sense up to 5 fingers at a time.
this company is a man of his word .
I put a 256 gig drive in (very simple upgrade btw) and now I can store my complete music collection and whatever office documents I can throw at it.
An old computer (it still has a floppy drive!)
All she wants to do is play games on nick jr, watch animals on youtube and cartoons on netflix.
Dead on Arrival - It took over two weeks to get refunded.
it just comes with that (strange) coloring and brightness, and there is nothing they can do about it" .
We had to get used to the keyboard keys - if you hit them under a certain angle (if you are further from the laptop than usual, for instance) there is a chance of accidentally bumping one off its clasps.
I got this for grad school (did a masters in engineering) and this served me well.
Had some problems with cold start (crashed), but restart OK. Down loaded new BIOS and trying to down load new drivers.
Perfect for the wife to have her own laptop to run her out of home business.
the "Dell Inspiron 15 i 15N 1900Bk 15.6 Inch Laptop (Obsidian Black)" is exelent for work and have elegant designe
bought this for my son who is in his senior year of high school  lasted 8 months than crashed.
said it will be sent for repairs  will take at least 2 weeks...  he has 4 weeks left of school :(Agree with other reviews about all the cons, he regrets his choice.
They might have lost the leading way they were developing on Laptops.
Pros:Gorgeous designLightweightNice aluminum caseLight on keyboardCons:Mouse erratic, moodyBattery built inThere must come with some ghosts that makes it to do odd things.
:)
First question is what do I use the laptop for?I use Photoshop CS4, Visual Studio 2010  (IDE for software development/programming), SQL server 2008 for development purposes, Video editing in various programs, lightroom, running Office 2010 etc....
It can manage 30-50 fps (frames per second) with the setting turned up for character definition.
I have cleaned all the trash ware off of it ( why do they put in on in the first place??)
It was bad from the beginning; just did not want to believe it.
My son has been doing some mid range gaming (minecraft/tf2/civ) on it as well as word processing (school) and web browsing (facebook/gaming sites) and for that this system fits perfectly.
My husband bought this for work to take with him when he travels.
I used Minitool Partition Wizard Home Edition (free version) to delete the D: partition and extend the C: partition to the full drive.
He got it in two days and loves it.
Tested NFS The Run (Frostbite 2 engine) works on medium low settings.
anda bien, ya he comprado esa marca y funciona bien.... estoy conforme con la compra y la forma de envio, gracias..
Me encanto este equipo, compre 2 de hecho por el precio que la consegui de 380$, muy rapida, bien hecha, diseo agradable y una tecnologia que realmente funciona en enfriamiento, lo que prometen es cierto, se mantiene fria incluso por horas a pesar del uso.
Corre juegos bastante bien, aunque obviamente no los ultimos del mercado o aquellos que requieran video dedicado, pero para juegos ligeros es genial asi como para el trabajo de oficina o casa, programas, IE, musica, videos, etc.
Realmente recomendada por el precio y las ventajas que ofrece.
Has larger monitor than her last one (an older Dell Inspiron).
This system comes with the Windows 7 Home Premium (64-bit) OS, and requires few system resources to perform the routine operations described above.
I took the risk because i got an Asus tablet (Transformer)for Christmas which i really enjoy so wanted to take the chance.
You get a technician who has a hard time speaking English and who does not know what an "Optimus technology" is.
contains a decent Nvidia GPU (most people forget about the existence of a GPU, and only shop by the CPU, RAM, and screen size, but GPU is important to gaming).
Update 9/19: Just swapped out the old disk for a 1TB SSD (Crucial).
Ability to clean fan filters (big)...
Over 400-500plus FPS on simple graphics, 50+ on mid range (full screen), 15 on EXTREME.
I am able to run XCOM, Eve Online ( 2 accounts) and Star Trek Online all at the same time with almost no lag...
Update:I purchased the Samsung Series 7 Gamer (NP700G7C-S02US).
La laptop en desempeo es realmente excepcional, Juego World Of Warcraft en ella y corre excelente con los grficos al mximo, los detalles como se ven de verdad me parece muy buena, considerando que una versin similar de Alienware supera el costo de esta en 700$, la pantalla se ve realmente espectacular, la vividez de los colores, el brillo sin quejas, el acabado del teclado con la luz de fondo tambin se ve bien y la estructura de aluminio anodizado sobre la que se encuentra hace ver muy pero muy bien el acabado, el soporte tecnico de Asus para actualizaciones de Driver por lo que pude ver yo funciona bastante bien, lo mejor sin duda es que el Sistema Operativo funciona bastante bien y Asus tiene el detallazo de dejarlo multi-idioma y no solo en ingles, razn por la que muchas personas pueden adquirirla y disfrutar del Windows en cualquier idioma sin mayor dificultad que hacer clic en la lista de idiomas... La nica dificultad ha sido poder encontrar un bolso para poder transportar la laptop ya que es algo grande y Asus no dispone de algn bolso para llevarla, si alguien conoce de alguno por favor hagamelo saber... Rendimiento 10/10Pantalla 10/10Teclado 10/10Recomendada si buscas una laptop a precio asequible con lo ltimo en rendimiento.
I do a lot of Vbox work for testing and the Vaio often held up but would have random crashings (linux or windows) and to get Linux to run on the vaio was a pain in the bum.
But if you suspend / come back bluetooth no longer works (at least for headset).
This (notebook) has ran perfectly and played every game I have in the best quality possible.
Even with resolution turned down and effects to low, dungeons on solo were choppy -- not talking just low framerate, but skipping (and not due to latency).
:)
:(So sending the notebook back will not solve the problem unless they install a different wifi-card.
It performs  comprable to my desktop on wheels (  watercooled i7 3.4 ghz, Geforce GTX 580, 250 gig ssd, 16gig ram. )
Extremly light (I can carry it with one hand while it is open.)2.
Has a DVD tray (no need for an external one:)3.
Fedex just lied all the way saying that they have processed this situation to their related department and  Kaikai Jakestore never answering even once their customer service line, just started to send mails of indifference i. e proposing a full refund, not charging expetied shipment until they finaly admit that they made a mistake by choosing FEDEX ground shipment i. e a truck driving all the way fm Kansas to Oxnard CA.
on 28th -which was the worse scenario by the way- at home despite having his flight at 18.15 and 1 hr.
Meanwhile there was an email chain of 20 but none reaching to a solution,trying to find the missing mysterious Toshiba.
Everything is very primitive, no output for a projector (requires a separately sold connector), camera-microphone failed in the first month, called support about it.
Many hours on the phone finally got a technician sent home, he replaced the camera+microphone.
Update:  Installed 8 gig of Corsair Vengence ram... huge improvement in video performance (now up to 6.7)and over all speed.
Besides that is pratically a ultrabook (little chunkier).
The hinge popped open after a year (just past warranty..).
Sencilla Laptop pero super buena, he realizado tantas cosas con mi laptop, cantar y leer la palabra de Dios gracias a esta, la recomiendo.
she is in highschool and needs alot of memory for her projects.
Playing diablo now is like an entire new game, max settings no problem, looks amazing, sound is amazing (diablo 3 is still disapointing).
The GT60 stays cool after a couple hours of gaming, seems to be well built, lots of cool features... You will not be disappointed.. looking forward to tearing it up in guild wars 2, secret world, and possibly arche age with this beast!
Pro:Intel quad coreGeforce 670M "3GB"1080P screenHDMIDynaudio speakerAmped headset jackKiller NICProgramable color gaming KBCon:So far no, maybe kind of big.
Its is also lighweight (8.6lbs) compared to other gaming laptop in its category.
So now im left with no laptop for 3 weeks ( While im in college ) and have to pay the shipping to get it fixed.
Estoy Muy agradecido con el producto que compre a esta tienda, soy de Costa Rica y el envi fue impecable, de la mejor manera posible, bien empaquetado, con buena seguridad, sin daos externos, hablando de la laptop es increble.
De cortesa me enviaron un mouse MSI, una gorra y solo puedo decir a Tegra Tech Store que muchas gracias y que cuentan con nuevo clienteSaludos y no tengan ningn miedo de comprar a esta tienda, es muy honrada y puntual.
Can run multiple games (Counterstrike, diablo 3, and starcraft with no lag simultaneously)Cons:1.
With a slick metal case and a waterproof keyboard, it is ragged and great for travels (except for its weight of course).
I installed it with Linux (Fedora).
The young man for whom it was purchased just can not keep his hand off of it.
Some bloatware that can be removed and the usual McAfee AV software limited trial (will replace and use Avast).
Laptop does a great job with games (does very well on BF3 and Skyrim).
Said he used to like the toshiba as his top choice, but this Asus made a believer out of him.
(Pressing keyboard keys do not produce any results in browser search or login windows).
A friend of his got the exact same computer and hasnt had any issues.
In summary, an unfinished product manufactured by a company showing a complete disrespect of its clients.
I used the parameters from the software so search - it turned up a variety of "gaming" computers.
This Asus was available with Windows 7 (not only 8) - which was a must - and has the power.
I have been playing games from across the years and each one of them comes up with clear images and no lag.
:))))
cons: - Overheating when you play games like Skyrim, diablo 3 even if it is running smoothly on max setting.
The temperature reaches up to 184 F ( 84 C).
El equipo llego en perfecto estado, esta chevere, es rpido y todo le funciona.
This Sony VAIO E series was purchased for my nephew who is beginning his first year in Medicine.
(in less than 10 months!!)..
Vaio (or Windows) has tried hard to make the touchpad similar to the one in Mac but its nowhere close3.
my sony ultrabook ( t series) has a big fan problem as the others.
although heating is ok, the fan is always working (and noisy) Sony never listens customers.
It weighs 5.2 ounces (the brick and the non- detachable cord that goes from the brick to the computer.)
The review that lists a "Con" has the Vaio being .5 lb overweight may be overstated as I noticed that the specs for the soon to be released Asus Zenbook Prime UX32A (with a hybrid drive) lists its weight as 3.2 lbs.
If that is pounds and tenths of pounds then the difference is actually less than 2 tenths of a pound (or less than 3 ounces).
The competition (Samsung series 5, Asus UX32A and Acer S5) generally has only a 24GB SSD.
External features:Left: power, two USB3 portsRight: ethernet, VGA, HDMI (incl.
Let me start by explaining that we are the typical Silicon Valley family, complete with a house full of computers and electronics.
So infested are we  that my 7 year old son has been whining for more than a year that he NEEDS a laptop to play Minecraft with his older brother and friends and that we are "hogging" ours all the time.
When asked what he wanted for his birthday/Christmas (very close together for him) he simply said "a laptop".
This is the Mac for the Pcs except for the jet in the machine that is about to take off :).
(Loud clicker)(4) Looks Gorgeous, Love the style(5) Sounds good.
"student use daily" 3 stars is sufficient.
it is very short time that he has it 3-4 days only ) till now, seems no problem) delivery was on time .
They even sent a second computer before she returned the first, so she could retrive her work she had already done.
(with Windows 7 on it)Here are the pros:-  1.
(Free shipping and it only took five days total time.
I have not opened the third laptop (in 4 days) yet, but am hoping I do not discover immediate problems.
2 The touch pad is somehow difficult to get used to (too sensitive and lacks of scroll).
32GBSSD vs. 16GB).
After about 2 hours of effort on their part, they were able to resolve the difficulties.
The online tech guys just repeated over and over that they will not replace the computer just the parts (the parts keep breaking).
He found it easy to use and is playng solitaire and typing some documents (baby steps).
The performance with games (which is actually where she has used it the most) is outstanding.
My daughter who is studying overseas was planning to take it with her.
this was delivered  15AUG12, after a few hours of hell trying to figure out what the heck was wrong with this computer, I finally had a friend with a Masters degree in computer science take a look at this computer, a few minutes went by and Wha-la,  It was infected with a porn virus from a previous owner,  that leads me to say that this was NOT a brand NEW computer as stated on Amazons site,  Yep,  I sent it back !
!Update: 6 months later: The keyboard has always had an issue with the (") quote key.
Games run great, Movies run great (no blue ray) sleek fast and fun laptop.
Chicklet keys (that light up!)
Hope to find solutions for above.2 times in matter of 3 days , it got shutdown on its own from sleep.
I am a regular user (work in th university in the Economy department) only use it for working (Office, statistics programs), for mail/skype/facebook, searching stuff on the web and watching movies.
They asked for a new keyboard to the US and in less than a month the problem was solved (that seems preety fast, considering the import restriction policy of our country).
It like Dell went to 99% (may 95%) and then gave up.
you will end up scroll or clicick couple of times.-There is no sence of balance when you scroll up and down, it is eithe too slow or too quick.-somtimes the cursor stops for 15 sec and you try to move it in some form example  couple ofcircular motions for 5 sec then you lift your finger off touchpad then after 10 or 15 sec the cursor manage to follow the trail you made on its own, funny but true.
body.... all this for 670 (including shipping) not to mention the 256 SSD!!
It is light, very powerful for browsing, photo editing, video playing (inc. MP4s etc) even for light gaming with the GT630 version.
My son is off to his freshman year in college in Sept.
No tablet (iPad, etc) can even be mentioned in the same breath as this machine.
:)
With my song and movie collection it was a blessing to move up to this Inspirion from one that is about 8 years old.
It will take 10 business days to repair after they receive it (not counting 2 business days to receive the return box + shipping time to Dell + shipping back to me).
They took the time out of their weekend to ship this product on a Saturday.
Sin embargo, la estoy usando sin problemas.
Al menos pensaba que era mucho ms veloz que mi antiguo y desactualizado desktop.
Wireless Adapter says "n" but it is b/g/n (just desc on label missing)Cons: Weight is around 9.5 pounds.
excelente muy buena maquina rpida la recomiendo pese a tener un procesador corei3, la pantalla es de  15"y robusta por el precio fue una excelente compra el tiempo de entrega estuvo dentro de lo ofrecido por el courier
Dell Inspiron i15N-2728BK 15.6-Inch Laptop (Black)Although Microsoft lost a foothold in the world of computers when they faded out XP ,This Dell is a very good laptop .
Recomiendo a este vendedor, el equipo llego en un perfecto estado a Venezuela.
He is happy with his Christmas present and uses it daily both for school and personal enjoyment.
I am a certified Dell technician, I am also a computer technician, I got this laptop for a friend who wanted something based on his desires, I got him this machine, Every other day or so or when we talk, he talk about how beautiful and awesome this machine performs.
Two negatives are:  I attached a mouse because the pad is overly sensitive; and, when I load a DVD I support the open drawer with one hand so as not to exert too much pressure on the very light-weight dvd drawer (and that is just common sense).
She keeps it in the kitchen for information on how to perpare various dishes.
Excelente diseo, sonido espectacular, pantalla nitida, 100% complacido con el equipo, el problema con el wireless se corrige actualizando la bios y cuando activas la bios se activa un pequeo disco ssd de 32Gb!
(Vertical viewing angles could be better)2.
There are not that many choices in the 14" space (basically this Dell and a Samsung 5 series).
Two major and two minor disappointments:- the machine has only 2 USB ports (one 2.0 and one 3.0).
(less than 24 hours).
It can get a little hot when playing graphics intense games(as do most laptops) but just hit the 100% cooling fan button and problem solved.
As everyone who uses steam knows, the steam client can be pretty horrible and sometimes cause registry corruption.
Bought this for my son (in high school).
I got with Tech Support on the phone and after several attempts to make it work, they told me to send it to their repair facility (I had to pay for the shipping costs!!!).
He loves it and he is able to do his gaming on it as well as everything else.
I went online (Google G570 hinges) and realized this is a guaranted point of failure on this particular machine.
They are notorious for the hinges breaking (even with the greatest care)this happens in ALL of their laptops... it makes no difference which kind you have purchased.
A gift for my grandchildren to use in doing their homework; they love it.
This was rare at first but eventually grew to happen about every 10 minutes.
The final nail in the coffin was when it stopped accepting a charge.
Samsung must have it in the system that even though I uninstalled it is still on computer (hidden, I guess)
Will help her in school for her nursing degree.
:)
(looks to the untrained eye that bad soldering was the problem.)
Purchased for a fourteen year old girl for her birthday.
Created backup of fully loaded system prior to deployment (her birthday).
I currently use this primarily for graduate school research and assignments, but in testing its ability this computer can play intense video games for several hours at a time.
Muy buen equipo, buen rendimiento, suficiente para las tareas que realizo con herramientas de office.
And of course - once it fell - the 500 GB HD got damaged.
Bought this for a student friend living in Costa Rica.
She took it on a trip recently and said it worked "awesome" for the music and games she put on it.
Havent had an issue with it yet (bought it about 9 mos ago).
Of note - it does come with a very crappy 128GB SSD in the computer (and only ~60GB free when you turn it on), so you may want to research replacement SSD drives which are bigger and faster.
I bought this bad boy right before I started law school part time in the fall of 2012, and I absolutely love it.
We (and our patrons) seem to love them!
Amazon sent me to the latest model NP900X4C-A02US (with A C)While Samsung has NP900X4B-A02US (with A B).
Bought the latest version of the Series 9 Samsung series 9 15" i7 processor model from Australia (AU).
Consider that ACER makes thin notebooks (not Ultrabook class) for less then half of this price.
You get a 128 GB SSD included, but by the time Samsung has put the O/S, their various bloatware, recovery partitions, and everything else they include - you get 50GB free.
:-)
Why would anyone want a notepad (except for price) when this ultrabook has it all.
Cons: Wish it was a Nvida graphics card - Battlefield 3 will not play on it, too choppy Bevel edge is great, but slightly hard to lift screen up trying to catch an edge to liftOther: Case Logic PLS-14 14.1-Inch Neoprene Laptop Sleeve (Black) fits perfect, snug but perfect.
There are some minor issues with the trackpad on ubuntu ( multi-finger gestures/swipes ) , but that just may be a learning issue.
Because that BTW reverts to "Samsung Eco Mode" even when switched to another power setting followed by immediate reboot (yes, tried that too).
The second one(within a few days of hardly using it) the screen went blank.
In comes the Samsung Series 3 (I am typing on now).
But it does get hot after an hour of use(maybe mine only?)
I played few games(cs,aoe) and it got warm fast.
Sent to 3rd party for repairs, repair company then voided warranty due to "Damage".
I have had IBM (Lenovo)and Dell laptops in the past.
(Customer service agent Jason).
Sleek look, a snippy software package (not too much bloatware).
(TOTALLY UNNECESSARY).
very powerful and downloaded MS Office (no CD drive).
Diseo moderno y gran capacidad de almacenamiento con sus 500 Gb.
Luckily I am traveling back to the U. S.(NY) and I am hopping to find a Samsung branch there who could take care of it.
An antivirus, MS Office, a lot of games, an OSX dock clone, Samsung "smart" battery manager etc.
Their website shows NP700Z5C-S04US on products list but NP700Z5C-S03US (this laptop) is not listed.
(Props to PC Mover for their excellent Live Chat assistance.)
I am five days ago trying to find out the following:When two HD Graphics have the notebook, the question is simple:As it is made to use in fixed way the Nvidia GT 650M?Is there anyone who has this model and can make it?Other models have in the BIOS a configuration (fix or dinamyc) but my HP does not have him.
Thanks Jose-----And they follow lies.
Only he has an entrance of headphones (not two), lies and lies and nobody becomes responsible.
Minor complaints: lots of crapware pre-installed, recovery disks span five (!!!)
dvds, tiny arrow and function keys, Office starter (this means ads and excel/word only).
(Nvidia).
I have to force to fight them ,,just leave that feedback  maybe they will learn that way
It is hot like hell (you figure having an i7 processor and a power hungry video card)This one is going to run everything you throw at it smoothly!
(I am an FSX player)
Lessons learned:  only buy computers from Amazon; never buy Toshiba.
:-)
we just did not want to mess the transfer up, senior citizen anxiety, no teenagers in the house.
The second thing; it does not recognize the wireless network from the beginning but later after attempts, it does.
It was the envy of his friends.
He had a friend that had one, and decided he would like one for himself.
Califico con cuatro estrellas porque la laptop fue entregada sin factura comercial, eso retrasa el trmite aduanero y retarda el envi
Es un buen producto; coloqu 4 estrella porque el vendedor entreg  la hp sin factura y eso retras el envi a Venezuela.
If you load a page (such as Amazon), you will get a pop up box telling you that Internet Explorer has trouble loading the page.
Excelente computadora, muy rpida y no me da ningn problema en ningn sentido, aparte me la entregaron casi 5 das antes de la fecha estimada :D
:)
:)
Unit was shipped with care to prevent in - transit damage.
He loved it... it is now one of his best gifts ever.
NOTHING... force a start to the drive... asks you to "INSERT A DISC IN DRIVE".
with 6g ram and intel i3 dual processor, this baby can handle a multitude of active tasks quickly without dropping internet connection, freezing internet pages or software (docs and excel) freezing - LOVE IT!
First one (different model) lasted less than two years and then overheated and stoppedaltogether.
Butthis is a typical case of an American company that takes its customers for granted, and does not care about them or their business.
Para mi trabajo como ingeniero civil es lo mejor que he tenido (y es mi tercera HP).
El window 8 es grandioso y facil de manejar.
Hasta ahora me va superbin con esta adquisicin y atendiendo a sus especificaciones no tengo dudas que la relacin calidad precio es unas de las mejores, me llego tod en tiempo y adems muy bien empacada, hasta ahora ninguna queja, se la recomiendo a cualquier amigo.
She just loves it and was the best one to order according to someone who should know Computers.
It still works somewhat... well.., (after all the send backs} but it is now hot as hell on the underside because I finally decided to turn it on after several months of dust collecting.
Another reviewer summed this up best: "About as schizophrenic, unresponsive and frustrating as it can be".
If you count on being able to work in excel or spend a lot of time reading (scrolling through) sites, consider getting an external mouse.
I immediately called them and told them to cancel the order - I had the feeling this was a bate an switch scheme.
Done), took over an hour.
Had to send this PC back twice, both for keyboard issues (not responding) after only 30 days old.
I boughtPatriot Memory Signature DDR3 8GB 1600MHz SODIMM (PC3 12800) PSD38G16002S) +OCZ 240GB Vertex 3 Harnessing SATA 6Gb/s 2.5" Low Profile 7mm form factor SSD with Max 550MB/s Read and Max 4KB Write 85K IOPS For Ultrabook - VTX3LP-25SAT3-240Gbut will do the upgrades when I arrive in Brazil, so I ll update this review.
One important tip, I cloned the HDD (500GB to the 240 SSD) with the Acronis True Image 2013 through USB (attached the ssd to an external USB 3.0 case), it worked, but MUST BE the Acronis 2013 version, the previous version DOES NOT WORK.
This thin fact form laptop is incredible, I buy this item along with Corsair Vengeance 8GB (1x8GB) DDR3 1600 MHz (PC3 12800) and Win7 upgradable to Win8.
I requested a refund in a different form and was told they can "try" but policy states gift cards can only be refunded in a form of a gift card.
This computer has been nothing short of a nightmare to use... one problem after another... constant freezes, defective pointers, goes offline and in "airplane" mode without provocation; apps appear on screen in the middle of using Word.
Purchased as a general purpose home computer for myself (53) and spouse.
Then it stopped working (would no longer power on).
(also great for watching a movie on the side while working on the other side)
She heads to college soon and wanted something small and light on the big campus.
Purchased this computer for my son that is in his senior year of engineering and he really likes it.
(More computer companies should have case color choices other than black)
The graphics are clear and he has no issues chatting with his friends on Skype while also playing the games.
It took more than 4 hours creating the recovery media (with verify my media option) and need 3 DVD DL discs.
Its the cheapest ultrabook that I found (600).
All of a sudden, out of nothing, the Hard Disc Drives goes dead.
- To use them on the way.
My first attempt was a Toshiiba which had problems right out of the box (literally).
:(
The cost of repair for this $264(Parts - $130, Labor - $69,Fedex Shipping - $65).
It is thin and light (just as the name implies).
It comes loaded with Windows 7 Premium Signature instead of Windows 8 (that is hard to find as of April 2013)Cons:It has no optical drive, ethernet port, or sd card reader.
I called their customer support and a kind representative told me I had a virus and it was manipulating my computer (he looked like he knew what he was talking about - he had no doubt so I trusted him).
From day 1 it crashed(Blue Screen) regularly.
(blue screen).
The laptop performs flawlessly using MS office (word, excel, picture manager).
it has a quadcore and runs on AMD10, pretty good for watching films and playing video games.
As well as for doing all the common stuff that one does with a PC (Office, internet, skype, etc).
Tiene 8 ncleos, es realmente rpida, instal Visual Studio 2010 y 2008 en menos de 15 minutos (entre los dos), SQL Server 2008 Developer en 5 minutos y no digamos para juegos.
Excelente y lo mejor de todo, el precio.
It works very well with other Sony products (PSP, PS3, 40" LED HDTV, Sony TV box, and Sony Tablet).
it has 8 cores (logical).
Power Consumption - BOOTA = 22-50WB = 29-39WC = 125-160WPower Consumption - IDLEA = 12WB = 28WC = 115WPower Consumption - SIMULATION  (5sec long simulation)A = 24WB = 35WC = 150WAudible Noise - IDLE (scale 0 = no noise, 10 = loudest)A = 3  (laptop is even quieter when raised above table surface)B = 4-6C = 10
(Considering the HP was fine).
Countless hours on the phone with HP techs, hired my computer network guy to come in and try to deal with it(unsuccessfully), 3 cross country shipping trips for it to be repaired and replaced.
EXELENTE LAPTO CUMPLE LAS EXPECTATIVOS ADEMAS DE SE LA COPETENCIA DE LA I7 DE LA COPETENCIA,  NO TIENE NADA QUE ENVIDIAR, SUPER RAPIDA MODERNA Y  VIDEO EXELENTE ADEMAS DE CONTAR CON EL RESPALDO HP  GRACIAS
It is great (imo) through headphones, but the sound that comes out of t he computer speaker is nothing to write home about, even slightly disappointing.
It is her main computer at home now and she loves it.
La capacidad de memoria, disco y video son excelentes para trabajar.
For reasons beyond belief, the plug retainer clip they selected on this model just does not work and you WILL NOT be able to get a firm connection (net effect is your LAN will appear to come on and off line with the slightest movement).
In this model (other models like the A53E work fine) they moved to a spring loaded retaining clip that is a visually bit more streamlined with the side of the case but has no guide edges to hold the wire side of the plug against the actual contacts.
Once I was browsing and once I had just started a paper for school (it did not save the doc).
Runs pretty cool (temperature).
My son was ecstatic when Santa brought him this computer.
(-$55) Great deal for the price.
I waited 4 hours for the deal,i think from 2-6am(philippine time).
Speakers at the bottom(loud when lifted): - Half star.
Found a replacement on eBay (obviously others have had the same issue) for $3.49.
The Keys keep sticking, sometimes I hve to hit key 3 or 4 ties before I cn get it ( see wht hppens to the A) Hd to hit it 3 times
es rapida y muy buen tamao de pantalla, lo unico que falta es mejorarle un poco la bateria
It is perfect for our usage - internet surfing & social networking, along with game playing.
Laptop is being primarily used by a school teacher for Microsoft Office and minimal DVD burning and has lived up to expectations.
(yeah right) install office and webroot.
So , a while back (<1 yr) I did a whole bunch of research for a friend who needed a new laptop.
I did some research and found out that this company often "loses" computers that they agree to fix.
ASUS support ( via email ) is prompt and effective.
Wanted WIN7 and this was one of the last notebooks with "7".
This will be my daughters PC for doing homework on (translation: play games on).
With in a month of using it started to attempt to log off on its own.
Got this laptop for my teenage son to cover all his education/gaming needs (plays mostly strategy games), downgraded to Windows 7 without any problems.
During the downgrading process there is only one thing raised questions - how to convert HDD from GBR HDD partitioning system to MVR (there are lots of internet blogs explains it).
Recomiendo al vendedor 100%, lleg a mis manos en perfectas condiciones y en el tiempo estimado.
Cool Para mi eso es lo mejor.6) The procesor is  very fastCons:1) the programs preinstaled (Office starter) is bad.
In my country (Colombia) this product is costous.
Touchpad is a mess, certain programs (like gestures) quit working intermittently.
Corsair 16 GB (2x8 GB) DDR3 1600MHz (PC3 12800) Laptop Memory CMSO16GX3M2A1600C11
Bought this for my Nana for Christmas when it was time to get rid of the old one (and it was definitely time).
The tech support (or factory support) ignored my description of the problem with the result being three separate returns over three months.
Updated(after 2 months of use)I bought this laptop on black Friday (about $100 discount) to my brother who wants to use it for word processing, internet browsing, watching videos and playing games.
bought laptop for daughter works great, uses it for all her school needs, plays her games, contacts her friend,  love it
My wife went to visit her brother and she would bring to Brazil the equipment purchased.
My wife and her brother were in a large SONY store in Manhattan, and for happiness of all, The SONY store offered us a better alternative that solved the problem.
My wife and my brother in law were 2 times a SONY store in Manhattan, to solve a problem caused by pcRUSH.
Perfect for a student (for a full size notebook).
He dowloads and plays a lot of role playing games and he said the pc handles them wonderfully.
le recomiendo este productos a las personas que quieran algo bueno y economico, muy muy buena y completa para compartir con la familia
She loved it, till someone broke in and stole all her electronics.
:-)
The July, 2012 issue of Consumer Reports rates it higher than the MacBook Pro (an $1,800 Samsung was number 1, HP DV6-7014nr #2 and MacBook Pro #3).
I got it for $464 on amazon when it is $522 at staples (before rebates).2: It comes with 4GB of memory (RAM) that can expand up to 8GB.3: This computer can do a lot at once.
Note that mine came with a low-voltage 4G module, so I had to hunt for another low-voltage one to put in there (I added a Samsung).2) The optical drive does not handle marginal-quality discs as well as other drives do.
To be brief, she is very very happy with her gift and that, dear reader, is what matters.
Dells (twice) refusal to service this computer under warranty is an admission they are producing inferior and sub-standard computers that consumers should avoid at all costs.
Instead it wastes 20G of 256G SSD with a "Windows recovery partition".
He loves it, it is great for his homework and games
After a number of struggles with PCs from every major manufacturer, I finally decided to try a Mac Air and I love it.
They would not admit that it was a known issue with their Ultrabooks and said that "physical damage" -- the only condition that excludes the display from the warranty -- can mean whatever they say it means.
My experience with this computer and with their sleazy "repair center" is not unique -- do some Googling.
What is holding this back from a 5 star is small things such as the status lights (hard drive, wifi, charging, etc) are on the front edge of the laptop and hidden by your left hand.
when I informed seller (excaliberpc)  about this, he contacted with Asus and he did a wonderful effort to get global warranty.
Still.... this situation caused ALOT of runaround on my part including reinstalling everything on my old computer during the interim and having to reinstall everything on this machine when the new harddrive came in (not to mention a happy trip to the post office and having to pay for shipping :).
The new hard drive was dead again yesterday (less than 4 months).
Product Description... FHD (1920 x 1080), Intel Core i7-3630QM (2.4GHz), 8GB DDR3, Nvidia GT ...
El nico detalle diseo que le veo es la ubicacin del lector SD que es un poco incomodo para meter las memorias.
O.).
My first machine was defective (crack under monitor).
"Theres nothing they can".
Continually operates Slow then slower (sporadic).
My spouse, for example, travels extensively and has for years carried a laptop to conduct her business anywhere in the world.
They sent him a label for FEDEX GROUND.
you got to love ASUS ;)
B&O;      , ,   ,      .
:)
The price was right and the HD sufficient, (650 gig).
First hinge broke after few months they replace but I spent $25 for delivery (ridiculous) after a year the other hinge broke too.
While writing papers for various educational purposes, one never realizes how many times a certain letter is used until the computer decides, "nope, no "n" for today!
The only annoying thing is that one key (the - key) gets stuck when you press it.
i love this computer, i have been using for a while and it works great for entertainment (holding movies, pictures, etc) and for school
so on balance:Machine equal five starsOperating system (Windows 8) equals minus one star.
Esta computadora es perfecta, la estoy utilizando en Ecuador y no tengo ningun inconveniente hasta el momento.
Tech support told be that their IT department was working on it, and "would have a fix shortly.
"The final result is that the computer is working ok now.
I have multiple computers (eight) that run multiple different platforms, so it is not user ignorance nor the lack of ability by the user.
this is a software issue and can theoretically be solved but my research has yielded no results and neither lenovo nor nvidia will bear responsibility (both directed me to the other).
It truly is lightweight (less than 3 lbs) yet so durable even after accidentally dropping it face down on the floor a couple times.
I bought at WalMart 2 years ago it is on at least 8 hours a day not only for her school work but she has two sisters who also use it for school work.
Three girls using the lap top for music, movies and school work and it keeps on going.
It runs minecraft pretty well (not perfect though).
Perfect for my mother in law who tears up a laptop once a year.
(Comes w/optional Win 8 Pro Upgrade if you want it.)
(Xmini does a great job since its small and portable too).
We like the sealed keyboard (no space between the keys to catch dirt).
(I did manage to disconnect a couple connectors without a problem.)
But it is now only a matter of time before I expect this laptop (less than 2 years old) to fail completely on me and it continues to shut down at a random moment in time, due to overheating.
Well you can go to Windows Explorer (file manager) and you can go to your My documents folders and you can see your "Kids" folder (as an example) but if you write a word document and then go to save it, the "kids" folder within your My documents folder cannot be seen.
Horrible image retention - this deserve a place in trash dump!Checkout all latest 2-in-1 ultrabook from Lenovo, Asus, Sony, even Dell is better now - Ghost in turning in grave now.
She was using a four year old Mac Book Pro that had been a workhorse for her business and personal computer needs.
)Setting up a developer environment is harder than compiling and installing a Linux kernel.
Im a doodler with dreams of becoming an artist.
( instead of 1 year)  RIPPED OFF!!!!
I love it that I can use steam and play call of duty MW2 on this, which after having to deal with subpar FPS apps, is a dream come true.
In the first 5 hours of use1) Might be Win8, or Office 2013, or this hardware, but- Once Pen / Stylus digitizer did not work.
Another challenge I am experiencing is that the S-Pen does not appear to work within Google Docs (it does work within Evernote).
Seriously?- No USB2Ethernet adapter (some businesses require this for securing their wireless network)- No microHDMI2VGA adapter (more money to add to the price tag)- Heavy
:-)
Pros:Superfast (startup, shutdown, and daily tasks)LightFingerprint Reader actually worksCons:No HDMI out.
(Had to have it done at a repair shop).
- Daughter (14)
After 4 attempts with the "helpless" desk in India and running through the diags, I am returning the computer to have it worked on.
Got this for my son who researched many different laptops for their usefulness for both school and gaming.
a graduation gift to my 17 year old high school daughter & had this laptop for barely 2 weeks when it froze on her.
I asked both the seller (DoReMi) and HP to refund our money and both have refused.
The H. P. is a great gift and the wife loves to play and do her business on it.
YOU SHOULD ORDER THIS, AMAZON HAS STRONG, POWERFUL THINGS, (ESPECIALLY ELECTRONICS).
I loved my old one (also a Compaq) with Vista but it died.
Only had it 2 weeks when her house was broken into and the thief stole it.
El equipo llego en buen estado y cumple con todas las caracteristicas de lo que compre .
I can not return the computer,to late from date of sale, goes to show you bad  merchandise is sold with no sales person to help leaving customers wander what to do next.
I love the metal case (plastic ones just chip and crack).
1:on the top lid (where it is black) it gets finger prints and other oily prints very easily.
This one met all of his exacting criteria, and met the parent budget too.
Tried installing better driver for it (Synaptics) but still horrible experience.
The new laptop seems to be in good order expect that the * and - key by the numpad are in the reverse places :-S(rushed manufacturing ??).
I tried playing one videogame one it(Street Fighter 4 arcade edition) game ran at a smooth 60fps with character models on high and environment on low, if the environment is raised the game would stutter.
Could use a bit more memory but is easily (and inexpensively) upgradable.
He wants to we buy a new one, send it to him, pay shipping back for the returned product and keep the returned product with us.
But then it started crashing more and more often, until 2 weeks ago when it became impossible to start up and even running recovery on it failed.
For browsing or watching movie or using office applications (Not running MATLAB or any high load simulators), it is a perfect match.
It takes no more than 5 sec to startup and have no pause in running programs (games not tested).
Keyboard keys are fragile (one fell off).
I had problems with the SSD data getting corrupted due to the power save configuration (turned off default write cache and only shutdown the machine - no suspend or hibernate).
Downloaded Intel driver and with worked better (longer periods), but the Wifi support is horrible and painful to deal with.
Apparently you are stuck with old drivers unless you figure out how to go to Nvidia and download the drivers yourself (they are not auto detected).
)Bundle OS and MS Office are wasted.
(Clean install of MS Office is not possible.)
There are issues with the drivers at this point (23 of October 2013) .
It turns off unexpectedly from time to time (the issue is most likely hardware one and seems to be a common flaw for this model, as a quick google search reveals), and sometimes the power on switch does not work.
The keys stick around the letter "L".
The book that comes with the computer is only a Quick Start Guide it only shows u the main functions of the computer(where to plug in,etc.)
She was very professional, however corporate Toshiba support is focused on their bottom line and not on their customers.
I sent it back, ( By the way, every time you send it back, you have to pay shipping!)
The keyboard has strangely spaced keys (some are grouped in blocks that require you to have monstrous hands to switch across blocks).
Ive called toshiba 5 times(spanning 4 hours and they dropped my call) and have completed 2 full recoveries but nothing has worked.
es una excelente computadora y las aplicaciones de windows 8 son lo mejor,la recomiendo un envi rapido y seguro,son de esas experiencias de que la compro ya
This was a Christmas present for my 19 year old son and sophomore international business major.
It is very slim and lightweight and his college roommate, who is a techie, says this is the one to buy.
Update: Day 1 (12/21) - Laptop arrived in great condition.
Not to mention a variety of programs it would crash when I opened (game sites and skype to name a few).
I already told  one friend not to replace her older HP with the new ones as they have become an unreliable product.
If needed, you must buy Microsoft Office (Not included).
A person must hit the keys directly in the middle; hitting the keys on the sides will not register letters when writing.
WiDi will only operate with the Intel HD graphics (or with NVDIA optimus).
Good thing also is that Fedex that a feature were for $5, they guarantee an afternoon delivery (5pm-7pm).
Gave it as a gift to my sister; loves it, a bit bulky but it was expected, she runs her film editing software without problem;
Windows 8 is a horrible product; unfortunately, some guilt by association.
connections-USB, HDMI, etc (see the tech specs).
Windows 8 sucks and Secure boot in BIOS setting will prevent installation of most of earlier and alternate operating systems including 7, in the BIOS it offers to disable the secure boot however it still rejects the Win7 installation CDs.
After the recovery, the dimmer setting sets back in like haunted and by this time, you already forgot the permanent setting.
The Bad - Keyboard, Windows 8 (aka fisher price OS) and the touchpad.
The Lame - "Blue Ray" drive reads but does not write Blue Ray format.
When the product arrived, I found that it came only with a power cord and laptop itself (none of the documentation was included and it came in a brown box).
I contacted Sony online for help to resolve the problem and went through seven different technicians over two days to try and resolve the problem without success.
Finally, I was connected to one of their experts (the eighth person) who verified that the problem does exist on three different Sony Vaio S series models that he had on hand that use the internal Intel HD4000 Graphics card.
:(
The memory were reduced in favour of a full SSD drive (256 GB), aiming a very fast computer, and it is not evident.
I am working with UBUNTU 12.10 (64Bits).
Their attempt to make a tablet based operating system is horrible.
:(
I really like that razer truly listened to its customers and its critics about the old blade, everything people said was wrong with it or bad about it, razer addressed one way or another, even if not exactly the best way (or the way I hoped for), but they still addressed it for example, storage space (old blade 256g SSD) they doubled the storage space on the new one (500g HDD 64g SSD).
Last but not least to mention is the increase performance with the quad core i7 and gtx graphics with the 660m, most games (all of the ones I play) can now be played on high or even ultra settings at 1920x1080 while pulling descent frame rates.
:-).
Which helps make it more mobile and has decent length at about 8 feet (just a guess).
Notes: I find that it helps to set the touchpad to "disable while typing", which deactivates the pad for a set amount of time after a key stroke (default is 2 seconds).
Catastrophic hard drive failure, with loss of all data, after 30 days of use with no physical damage to the computer -- no drops, no spills.
You have to drag it(from the left) back on to your screen.
She is ready to go back to school.
:-(
not like  UPS/FEDEX/USPS people who usually pressed the door bell and left the items next to the front door, the delivery person from Prestige simply threw the whole box to the cement porch from several feet away, even after he saw we had opened the front door for him
I spend 15 minutes explaining my story, answering all of their security questions only to be placed on hold and then told that no one has an idea why my computer has not been fixed yet to call back in 2 days.
In order to try and avoid the shipping cost, I decided to enlist the help of my computer savvy son who discovered that McAfee Anti-Virus causes the "blue screen of death" on some computers because it has problems with Windows 8.
This mitigates the possibility of using the laptop while standing up (browsing through recipes while cooking... etc).
exe--(shades of DOS, right?)
This worked (???).
:)
Bought an external CR Rom Reader/Writer ( ASUS so there was no conflicts) Enough hard drive to load QuickBooks & Office.
Please try the following method:a. go to control panel ,open the network and internet ->network connections->networkand sharing center->change adapter settingsb.
Set the startup type to "automatic".
Es un ultrabook excelente, la relacion costo beneficio es muy buena, recomiendo siempre usar la pantalla con un lapiz tactil a veces el dedo es poco preciso.
This one was for my 12 year old son(pink so it would be harder for him to lose).
(owned for 3 months)
It was under warranty, and since the damage was on their part not mine they covered the repair, so I sent it in (which costed money) and they replaced it.
Ultimately, this is the most fun, most exciting laptop I have ever owned (had various laptops years ago by Toshiba and HP, and also a PowerMac G4).
When she unwrapped it, she said it was "perfect".
Initially, this thing turned out to be quite a nightmare having frequent issues such as cursors jumping all over the place (seems to be quite common), programs locking up, key board not responding etc.
(I am still not a big fan of win8).
Easy to type on, boots up nicely, no restarts as of yet (owned it about 3 weeks to a month now).
School use consists almost entirely of writing documents with google docs and learning how to collaborate with other students/teacher using gmail/docs inside a walled-off google universe.
This platform should only continue to grow in the future.
A few months later, we bought one for him and then one for our daughter in high school.
When my about-to-graduate-college-senior son reluctantly reported that his 4-year old laptop was dead, I immediately jumped in my truck and gave him the MBP (Happy Graduation!).
Research results were $1,200+ for an i7 laptop with detachable keyboard; or, $399 for i3 laptop with the guts in the keyboard section (and therefore not detachable).
If you try to backup this computer (ASUS VioBook X202E-DH31T) using the built in Windows 8 image backup program it generates an error that prevents backing up the computer.
I have worked with dozens of (non-ASUS) Windows 8 laptops and never encountered this problem.
Might as well get a cheapo Chromebook since it appears that anything in this price point (especially touch) is going to be garbage anyway.
Digo que de fbrica porque el equipo viene bien cubierto y protegido por todos lados, es imposible que se haya hecho tal abolladura durante el traslado del mismo.
el color de la laptop fue lo que mas me impresiono, un gusto para un hombre serio,ejecutivo, esto da que decir, a pesar de todo los componentes de la laptop es muy buena hasta juegos me corre bien como Dugeon Siege III o Skyrim, la recomiendo
And, it only has a single band (2.4 GHz) Wi-Fi.
Got 2 VivoBook for my daughters (15 & 11) and so far they love them.
I am a graduate student and would recommend this to other students (undergraduate and graduate).
Had initial hiccup with HD streaming videos being choppy (on both Netflix and YouTube).
The touch screen is randomly, reckless, imposing unwanted windows and sending the pointer into hiding and she hates Windows 8.
The very first day it shutdown for no reason (full batteries)and with no warning.
I gifted this to my dad because his aging Dell Studio 15 was giving up on him.
(cough.. cough.. Toshiba/Dell)He loved the touch screen.
Purchased 2 of these laptops (14") for my grand daughters graduation present to be used in college.
Ull have to settle for a ridiculously overpriced (old stock?)
Im through with this rubbish - Asus are an excellent brand with quality machines, I hope the R&D;  dumb a$$ who authorized this stupid move is fired and banned from ever making executive decisions.
Por el precio del producto esta muy bien, consulte con un ingeniero en electrnica y me coment que las caractersticas son propias y las bsicas de cualquier computador que existe en el mercado.
con relacin al tiempo de entrega cumplieron muy bien con lo prometido.
es una computadora con funciones bsicas, la cual es necesario ampliarle la memoria ram.
El equipo fue entregado a tiempo, sin complicaciones, y lleg en excelentes condiciones.
EN LINEAS GENERALES, LA OPERACIN DE COMPRA POR INTERNET, SE REALIZ MUY BIEN.
SALVO ALGUNOS PROBLEMAS TCNICOS CON LA TDC (NUMERO DEL PLSTICO REGISTRADO VENCIDO, A LA HORA DE CANCELAR EL ENVO).
I work in IT and I did one big mistake (at least I admit ).
Bought it for a ten year old boy who has had no problems using it.
all that needs to be said is once you have removed all the toshiba bloatware and the worthless norton security crap it plays games such as deus ex human evolution, bioshock, bioshock 2, dead island, call of duty black ops II, darksiders II, saints row the third, orcs must die, assassins creed III, and borderlands 2 with the highest settings it stays cool and has no lag in any of them
Recommended for those that use their computers for light-to-medium processing activities (this is not a gaming machine).
Windows 8 in my experience (2 months) hasnt been funI will try my hardest to get used to it, but for now, it sucks.
The touchpad is a crime against humanity, impossible to use smoothly.
The keyboard is about a 7.5 on the scale of 1  10 (10 being the best).
Another example: Shift+End or Shift+Home is a very efficient way to select text while editing (MS Word or otherwise).
visible in dark scenes in games and movies)-Wireless card is improved over the previous version of the l521x, range is improved, but the card still under-performs.
He was the only one in the household without one.
A friend showed him all the ammenities it has.
This computer was bought  as a gift for a family member, he seems to be enjoying it and is learning more everyday.
I bought this for my 11 yr old son as a Christmas & B-day gift (B-day is in January).
Me parece un excelente computadora de las mejores portatiles que he tenido, sera bueno incluir el paquete de Office para no tener que comprarlo por separado, por lo dems estoy satisfecho
This lap-top boots really fast even with many applications hanged from the start (Skype, drivers, game servers, etc.)
As advertised, except that:(i) the computer keyboard has no separate number pad, and(ii) the keyboard sometimes "slips" so that it spaces to another part of the sentence instead of typing the letter that you tapped on.
It came as a true 21st century equipment.
This is actually my second Samsung notebook I have purchased in the last 6 months (I also own a series 7 NP700z5b-s01ub), and I love them both.
This one has honestly come to be my favorite of the two because it is outperforming the other (similar specs but this one is clearly more powerful).
The battery will game for about one hour and with a laptop cooler the temps still get to around fifty-nine degrees (max).
I contacted MSI they responded in about 6 hours and sent me a link for the SCM (system control manager).
you click on it and you choose what you want to do (keep speakers on or turn them off and listen to the headsets only).
Pros:-Looks Great (enjoying the brushed aluminum)-Keyboard is way epic!!
It has all the features he was looking for and will help with establishing his career.
Only real complaint other than bloatware is the left control key which fell off immediately upon first use and took me days to find a way to reattach (although somewhat imperfectly) and continues to feel fragile.
He had a hard drive issue (or what I suspect to be a hard drive issue) after a few days of using the laptop.
Only once out of three times did they get the shipping box, repair process, or return process done in the turnaround time they promised.
Otherwise, Sony will take it from you for 12-20 days (not the 10 they promise) and then return it to you still broken -- 3 times in a row.
To the lovers of the computers they are going to go super with her.
Then this past week (a few days past the warranty) it crashed.
This one turned out to be a lemon:(
:)
We bought it for the kids (11,9,8) for surfing web and email.
excelent the Sony VAIO E15 Series SVE15122CXW 15.5-Inch Laptop (White)  very very very very very very goood and like new
Three days later, Sony cancelled the visit of the repairman.
The estimated repair charge (covers labor, parts and shipping) is $1404.31 + applicable sales tax.
It took me (and the SONY support) forever to even realize it, but finally we found: "For models compliant with the IEEE 802.11b/g/n standard, only 2.4 GHz band can be used."
He loves it as it allows him to use the internet at his cabin.
It took a bit of tech support to get the 2 years of included T-Mobile service to be recognized (validated) and up and running.
100% improvement over his Intel Atom based laptop (which he promptly gave away)...
I realize it takes time to learn any new operating system, but they took everything good and hid it behind layers of stupid "integrated" pages.
Used it for photo editing; tethered shooting with Capture One and video editing with CS6 Master Collection softwares.
(You have to supply your own install package of Windows to do this).
We also use it for my grandson (18 months) to learn on without having to constantly worry about him spilling something or knocking the computer over.
My son loved his needs he uses it all the time for school .
UPDATE : DELL Send a tecnician to my place, ;ore than 2 weeks after I reported the issue ( supposed to have a Next business day on site warranty included with this XPS).
This computer can change from playing a game (ex: Vegas 2 ) to skype or its desktop as if it was changing normal windows.
:-)
she loves it the only complaint (at first) no netflix support but that was fixed.
She got a picture of the item in her stocking and she was thrilled.
Light, sleak, fast, hassle-free -------.
She says "she loves it".
Got it for my son, he loves it for school work.
my mom i a teacher and all of her students use them in school.
"Untitled" is the new name.
From a productive point of view: Google Docs is fair enough (offline mode works very well) and with Skydrive you can create and/or edit your docs, xls and ppts and save them to your Chromebook and/or external flashdrive.
In a second step, drag and drop them to your Google drive (Cloud) to be available for Google environment.
Cloud computing is required (almost mandatory) to use your Chromebook.
She uses it for her school work and they are all on the Google drive and it is perfect for her.
It could support logins for children younger than 13 yrs (google account required for login)4.
The Chromebook relies entirely on the google servers for Google docs (the google version of microsoft word).
Have had trouble getting printer setup (google print) - still working on that.
Now we just have a challenge keeping it away from his dad!
My 15 year old got this for Christmas He loves it His cousins were over and they were equally impressed ;we all know how difficult it is to impress teenagers
He is in high school and needs a laptop he can depend on to keep up with, and research his classwork.
His last one died and he researched for this one and he is very happy about it.
He also likes the security that he feels isa strong point with a chromebook.
It took her some time to get use to it and how it works; once that happened she was all good with it.
The software issues, I suspect, are related to Microsoft - Google rivalry and hope are resolved in the near future.
He thinks its great and its keeps him online without tying up the family computer.
Purchased for our daughter (26 year old) for Christmas.
Talk to tech support (english) did a power wash and it works fine now.
She wanted this for school cause the school uses Chromebook  She loves it.
surprisingly it running web URL well.- Youtube ,Netflix (Ran well)- Have run multiple Tabs (runs smooth)- Speaker are good.
No ESPN fantasy football, Fifth Third bank, etc.
He uses it for his home work and many other things.
It has all the features she needs to complete her school work, submit homework online, and check her teachers websites.
It is also small enough she can put it in her binder to take to school and be productive there as well.
This is the Chromebook that the school district uses for their students.
Very handy for wife to take around the house (use in the kitchen to look up recipes, quickly check e-mail, show pics, etc.).
Can hook up to home theater to stream videos or play tracks from Google Music.
Delivered quickly and as promisedSaved me hundreds of dollars over another laptop since it meets my needs (internet, e-mails) while away on a trip
The picture shows a grey and black hat that swoops down in the front and back.
There is no "Caps Lock", shortcut is: "alt" + (the magnifying class icon),  This is a toggle command.
Bought this for our daughter who lives in another state halfway across the country.
For college students the writing and powerpoint are a must Chromebook makes things so difficult microsoft word are difficult to usel
I am an associate pastor at a local church and pairing this computer with my Samsung Galaxy Note 2 has opened up a world of Google Docs I never knew existed.
So yeah, bringing the family together one family member at a time.
I purchased the Samsung Chromebook (Wi-Fi, 11.6) for my wife as a christmas gift.
His laptop was getting old and he had a brand-new iMac already, but for a laptop he was accustomed to a PC.
Since Wi-Fi is becoming more and more prevalent everywhere you go nowadays, getting connected (which is main reason this machine exists) is really not a big problem unless one demands connection 24/7.
He never thought I would buy him his own!
Bought this to alleviate conflicts between shared users of the same macbook, but everyone prefers the macbook over this...
It is applicable (utilitarian wise) primarily in Google Apps.
For power users there is Crouton project with scripts for setting up Ubuntu in a chroot environment.
You do need to have WiFi to get anything done (of course).
My son got it to do his school work but it did not support the documents he needed.
My daughter is a middle school student attending "flipped" classes.
( Yes and No) The first day I had this computer I was about ready to smash it up against the wall.
when not in use... power seeps out at 20%+ each day).
La mercancia llego a mi pais con las especificaciones descritas por el vendedor, es decir totalmente nuevo y en perfectas condiciones.
She had a friend look at it and he could not understand what to make of it, it was not anything he had seen before.
With very little memory, everything is set up to store on cloud (profitable for Google?
Very little intelligence built in, again by design, you cannot load any programs (word processing, spreadsheets, etc) that to do things off-line.
There no option to sort or filter the music files in either cloud or Chromebook, so to move you music to must click every music file individually or select all files (slelects all music and other files that you may not want to move, so need deselect those), there is no option to just select music files or even use wildcard to select music files as "*.
Eleven hours after trying to set up this product with the assistance of others, we eventually decided to ship it back to Amazon the following day.
).
She uses it for school work, listening to music, and surfing.
Only down side is that he is unable to play some of his internet games with friends.
This was a gift for a friend of mine and he Loves it and uses it daily.
The other star deduction is because google is attempting to recreate major applications in their own style (i. e. Google sheets versus Microsoft Word and Secure Shell app for Code::Blocks).
It even arrived a day earlier than predicted :)
She is eight years old and is having no troubles finding what she wants and the simple layout of Chrome is what people have been waiting for out of computers for years.
Perfect for an aspiring student writer.
(Less capabilities than an iMac or perhaps other laptops.)
bought this for my niece (12yrs old).. she loves it.. watches movies, plays games, does homework, etc.. great buy!
This is just great for schools language arts teachers who teach with laptops.
I read "In The Plex" about inside Google (Great readBTW) and I have been using chrome and google docs for quite a while to prepare for a transition office wide for an all Chrome cloud based office.
)I will wait for a hardware implementation that lives up to the promise of chrome.
:It may shut down unexpectedly (system crashes, many reviews noted this issue) Very limited supply of apps, mainly google based apps.
My son picked this out as a Christmas present for himself.
The biggest problem is learning how to deal with documents... it is INSANESpend the extra 50 - 100 and stick with tried an true systems.
ArchBiz is a company that apparently makes its money from trying to sell products that are wrongly advertised and then charging the customers a bogus and outlandish restocking/refund fee.
Samsung Chromebook (Wi-Fi, 11.6-Inch)
It was annoying but I figure it out and solved the problem by going into developers mode and then turning back (erases everything) into normal mode.
I am a graduate student who uses powerpoint and PDFs to study and present material to the sections I teach, as well as create documents for study guides and note-taking.
Got this for my kids (ages 15 & 12) and they love it!
I am now going to purchase one for my daughter as she loves to steal it leaving her beloved Apple iPad behind.
I work in IT and am a firm believer in the KISS (Keep It Simple Stupid) rule.
It does everything that she needs to do; her email and her banking.
It does NOT allow them to download anything random (for the most part, you must look for an app on their network) which is good, because that keeps them from downloading harmful viruses.
Had this and just passed the 4 month line, Screen started acting up like a cord was messed up  2 months in, Now half of my screen is white with weird electrical smudges and the other side is my computer, Past the line of Return (LITERALLY) and exchange.
Along with Joe Sixpack and the Pedophiles that live down the street.
Contacted support which took 3 days for a response (too long).
I bought this Chromebook for all three of my kids (13, 11 & 9) 3 months ago in preparation for school.
Both of these are rumored to be coming soon.
After the adjustment period (for instance, no delete key), I was sold.
Chrome (browser, social medial, video) plus offline apps plus Google Drive (Google Documents, Presentations, Spreadsheets) plus Sky Drive (Word, Excel, Powerpoint).
Matter of fact, my  IT professional at work thought it was a great product and he bought one for his mom who just wanted to use the Internet.
I bought mine for the kids to play their Disney and Nick Jr games.
After just a few months the USBs are acting up - losing connection at the slightest movement of the cord.
For the geeks, this is supported by Arch ARM (as it runs ARM architecture) and you can dual boot and have great developer options to play around.
Spotify, Netflix, Hulu, Youtube (even 1080p) work perfect.
Google Drive (docs) is a good replacement of MS Office.
Data in the cloud - not afraid of losing machine to giving it away.
This Samsung Chromebook (all Chromebooks) does NOT support Java.
And when it IS ACTUALLY FUNCTIONING (45% of the time) it lags like crazy!
The only thing to brag about (which they have done to the limit) is that it takes little time to load.
Not compatible with the games she likes (Minecraft, etc).
An important point to recognize is that this computer will not run programs (.
Surprisingly very functional for a school with a 1:1 format (personal device for each student).
com/gp/product/B00J49ZH6K/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp;=1789&creative;=390957&creativeASIN;=B00J49ZH6K&linkCode;=as2&tag;=travguid0ca-20
She loves it15 years old in high school, she spent a ton of time learning the operating system despite not being very tech savvy just because she loves this chromebook so much.
I got her a monitor along with it and she gchats/videochats her friends constantly.
Does all her homework and papers on here so when she is at school in computer lab, can access her work via google drive.
The main reasons are the instant on and connected (no waiting for anything what so ever after opening the lid).
Third, I wanted to have a laptop up with ESPN Gamecast on during football games (and I expect to do the same during NASCAR season).
I have tried many iterations (and frankly I have purchased from BestBuy because I can return them more easily after trying them for a few weeks).
I have tried the MacbookAir ($1100 was way too pricey to meet these needs, but equally effective as the Chromebook).
They do mostly web things (facebook, instagram, etc), but the Google Docs apps (spreadsheetthey can do all of their homework with that.
Everything is saved to the cloud (Dropbox or google drive) their documents, so no losing data.
This was the perfect Xmas gift for my son who broke his 1 year old laptop accidentally a few months prior.
This chromebook had a hard time playing Youtube videos ( videos played choppy) but I could deal with that.
But she lives in a nursing home and they have no internet.
May look the same (Samsung copied) but a huge difference in quality and functionality.
It took very little time for him to realize the benefits of using Cloud storage compared to hard drive storage, especially when he saw how nicely everything stayed in synch with his Android tablets.
It also meets his social media needs and scheduling and rosters etc.
for the sports he coaches.
He likes the Chromebook and states that it is meeting all of his needs.
She gets viruses and all kinds of garbage on her other computers.
UPDATE (10/21/13) - I have had this thing for almost a year .
It also helps to know that (finally) Logmein is working on an extension for Google Chrome, in case that is an important service for you.
They handle themselves, and all you have to do is restart your Chromebook occasionally (which when updating still takes under a minute).
The little plug in pin (power adapter) did not break and all works fine.
She is able to do her assignments on it.
In the beginning, it kept crashing... maybe attributable to human error.
I have one, and bought this one for my sister(who has spent the last 20 years avoiding computers) She loves it.
He claims it is the best present he ever got and seems to continue to hold it in high esteem.
if you have done your research on Chromebooks, you know that your data is save to the "Cloud" (somewhere else).
Bought this for son for Christmas for his college studies.
For my 93 old Mother who checks email and logs into her various accounts, this paired with Lastpass is ideal.
End of story.
The computer was for my husband who only knows a limited amount about computers, but he took to his one right from the start.
She uses it for reading blogs, browsing the web (facebook, news...), and for streaming videos.
There is not a single application that they use on the Apple Macs we have at home (we have 9) that they use.
Kids  only do homework, go on social media, watch movies and listen to music.
The "His and Her" Chromebooks work perfectly!
It was a gift to my granddaughter and she, of course, carries it to school and uses it happily and continuously every day.
I ordered one of these for my son, who works out of state and needed a way to communicate at odd times - and that worked out so well I got another one for myself and one for a friend who is in an extended-living facility.
Apple did a nice job with their magnetic connector, perhaps they could create something similar (without patent issues of course!)
They go online to use educational programs, both free and purchased (IXL, SpellingCity, AdaptedMind, Free Rice, etc).
All of these programs run perfectly on these machines - they never freeze (as happens on laptops and computers), and respond quickly to commands.
(so thin).
She loves her Chromebook.
(Just a note, this is someone who does not understand the difference between something being on her hard drive or on the cloud.
To her, everything that goes wrong is something wrong with the computer... never (Ha!)
anything she does.)
On boot-up I have the option of selecting the Ubuntu operating system (in this case on an SDHC card) or continuing to ChromeOS.
It took several hours to troubleshoot the installation of Ubuntu 13.04, though 12.04 (which I installed first) installed smoothly.
I do plan to use this to take heavy duty notes when I observe teachers (I am a high school admin.)
It boots up super fast (7 or 8 seconds maybe?)
Wife loves it she can take it with her anywhere and conect to the internet to do her school work
my 14 year old daughter bought this chromebook for herself and she is very happy to have this in order for her to do her schoolwork independantly
I ordered this computer for a young girl who is in college.
I hope she will graduate in three years.
A dream comes true, between 6 o 7 hours of normal use.4.
All the kids got to use these at school and bring them home for the last month of school.
Chrome OS and this laptop are simply one step ahead of the future (cloud computing).
If I am just typing a document I can get 7+ and without wi-fi on (rare) I have had 10 hrs.
I liked the Samsung and kept trying to find a reason to keep it over the Acer (messed with settings etc.)
got Chromebook for wife so she could do her facebook and games.
She loves her new toy.
(Reduced the rating from 5 to 3 stars.
Their support is not good and I just gave the device to a friend who is a geek and he agrees.
But if all you do is surf the web (email, news, Facebook) and stream video the Chromebook is perfect.
Finally, you get 100GB of Google drive storage for free for two years (a value of $5 / month).
other than that, this works for what i intended it for (surfing/browsing the web).
This was a Christmas present for my granddaughter - she actually cried when she opened it.
It made my heart glad to see a young girl (19 years old), show her gratitude in that way.
Just three(3).1) I love music, my kid loves music, and I need my classical music to concentrate when I write.
Having to learn ANOTHER way (iTunes, Amazon, not Google Music) to upload & play my fav tunes is annoying.2) Having to surf thru MORE apps to find things - at a price!
They told me he accidently ran over it with his truck.
For certain people (grandparents or younger children) this could be a primary computer.
She loves it, The wifi works great and allows her to work or play from any where in the house
It is extremely fast (booting up within seconds) and she is able to access all websites that are on her school assignments.
(3 days later.. anbd endless work work work and chat chat caht) It is not easy.
(WHY?..
I did not want to spend a lot of time "learning" a new way of doing things, but I wanted a light, fast booting machine for browsing and accessing my host computer (via logmein) when I was out of the office.
No storage (or almost none) and everything is in the browser.
com/Dell-Inspiron-i17R-1053sLV-17-Inch-Laptop/dp/B009LTUB1E/ref=sr_1_1?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1353674608&sr=1-1&keywords=i17r-1053slv), but actually has an i3 2.4 GHz processor.
This computer is fast, there is a learning curve with windows 8(coming from xp).
The courier person had come to office and he has not called my international number at all (India number) and he had taken back.
dimensions (measured by me) 38cm x 25cm x 3.5cmweight 2.8kg
But, am seeing frequent wi-fi disconnects (Not so frequent, once in 8-10 hours, if you keep on).
Constant hardware issues... no OS paperwork included (pirated version?).
()/I do not want to waste my time returning the tem.
It has been sent to their depot and returned not working and now at this moment another call to the technician.
However, Dell must have their heads examined for leaving out the msata slot which should have been on the daughterboard of this new-generation power system as directed by a Dell techie.
Seriously, until Google recognizes that some people really want to be able to print out a hard copy, and implement some sort of local usb download/install of a driver to local linux kernel, they only have an interesting toy for anyone who needs to print.
Verizon gives 100 mb per month for 2 years (included in price).
works well with external devices (Hard disks, Android phones).
Cons:try to open less tabs (reloads old tabs).
Error msg 4310, which has to do with burning music from ITunes and remains an issue after days of tech support from different sites.
Light weight, easy to get started (with the exception of getting used to Windows 8), easy to use.
( IT KEPT ON SAYING IT LOST ALL PROGRAMS) They said it needed a new motherboard and HD.
(SO THEY SAY) I landed up paying after 13 months of owning it another > 180.00 besides the original cost.
La configuracin (tanto de HW y SW), es tal, como est descrita en la publicacin del artculo al momento de comprarla.
(tech assessed) I like their product  Love hte red and have had many compliments!
talked to ASUS tech and he told me to wipe everything and restart my system thus had to reload all my information including games (had to start over from the beginning).
I finally called ASUS; I was "assisted" (loosely used) by an extremely mechanical rep reading his scripts who referred me to Microsoft.
Glad that the unit did not come with alot of software demos (including anti-virus)that must be removed.
OR (B) Replace the entire system altogether.
I chose option (B).
This will be followed by having to completely re-install my programs that I will need for my college classes, as well as all of my personal games, and the programs my daughter uses for her high school classes and her music career.
Been computing since the commodore 64 days(my cassette player was my prized possession.)
delivered on time - removed from box and started to set up - then I realized the "s" key was not working.
Arrived with the same key board issue as the other laptop purchased (and returned) two weeks ago.
called them on day 4 and spoke to a foriegen tech agent from India.... who could barely speak English.
My brother who too is attending college as an audio engineering major has already put his order in for his.
I have bought an Aspire (3.5 years old), and a Dell (2 years old) and both of those are still going strong being used by my kids and husband.
My college student (son) is very happy!
This is able to play the most up to date games (on lower settings)
(May have been related to a power-surge/brown-out.)
Excelente equipo, muy buen diseo, es muy rpido el procesador, permite personalizarla bastante, muy sencilla de usar  bastante cmoda adems de garanta por un ao internacional y contra accidentes
The Notebook has never worked for the amount of time (battery life) it claimed to work for.
His words - "Awesome".
Also, you can choose how to secure the computer when you log on; you can do a password, facial recognition (the webcam takes care of this), or fingerprints (there is a finger scanner).
Loyal Dell consumer for 18+ years finally convinced with this ProBook.
Now this laptop (hopefully all other HPs) using the Win 8 discs did not include anything other than the OS.
(Why would anyone buy an i3 is beyond me).
However, we had serious trouble with the wireless card (a Qualcomm Atheros); it kept losing the internet and then the network - connectivity lasted 2 minutes at a time, tops.
We first discovered that the driver on it was for Windows 8 (not 7, which was the installed OS); however, rolling it back to a compatible driver did not work.
And when we did that, we lost the biometrics (fingerprint scan) capabilities (and who knows what else).
(The application and drivers do not appear to be on the back-up discs.)
However, the good news is that the new wireless card (which is a different kind) works just fine.
The computer has a beautiful deisgn (similar to the 15" MacBook Pro).
com/OCZ-Technology-2-5-Inch-Industrys-Warranty/dp/B007RARHSO/ref=sr_1_2?s=electronics&ie;=UTF8&qid;=1355440996&sr;=1-2&keywords;=ssd+256+gb
;( Sadness...
Hope to send to Beijing, China directly.
)I LOVE THE NO JUNKWARE this is what sets  Vizio apart from the competition.
Diagnosis: No operating system, no bios, no nothingexcept a Vizio logo and a beautiful laptop paperweight (designed in California, if you wanted to know).
com was:X501A-TH311 ASUS Core i3 4GB/320GB 15.6 "Slimbook Processor: Intel Core i3-2350M 2.3GHz / 4GB DDR3 / 320GB HDDAND I RECEIVED:ASUS X501U with AMD E1-1200 APU with Radeon (tm) HD Graphics 1.40 GHz / 4GB DDR3 / 320GB HDD.
A little expensive for me, since I live in Argentina, and I have spent around 1870 dollars(final in my office), but to my 50 years, I prepare some gifts, since life is very short to save money.
However, leave it to American ingenuity to develop an add-on that transforms the W8 experience.
I bought this computer - same color as the one shown (lime green) and it has been a very reliable computer.
La rapidez en el arranque es sumamente sorprendente, solo 33 segundos para que este listo para usar.... wow.
La calidad y nitidez de la pantalla con sus 1080 de resolucin, es fascinante.
The Backspace, Arrow keys and the D key (there may be others too), stopped working.
When I contacted the Seller (Two Cougars) about return policy, they did not even respond.
I took the machine back to the store (A Microsoft store) and the replacement suffered the exact same problem after about 12 hours.
My teenage daughter needed a laptop for her virtual schooling.
(mac book anyone??).
Graphics is great (Not for Hardcore Gaming) -Just the basics.
Weight.- It is not  heavy for my at all since I am really strong and buff but FEMALE customers should be awarer (could be heavy for a girl or some women) (For men it should not be heavy but just right)WARNING!!!!!!!
Fortunately I was able to look up these problems online (where it quickly became apparent that there were lots of other frustrated customers who were also suffering the same problems) and solve them with the solutions posted on some internet forums.
I thought this might just be a temporary problem so I let it be for the first month or so, running a chkdsk every time it crashed to (try to) prevent damage to my hard drive.
I lost all of my data that hadnt been backed up (I hadnt been able to do a back-up for several months).
This is a hard edged, uncomfortable and stark machine that has one of the worst squirrely touchpads have ever come across, it gives new meaning to the phrase "rinky dink".
Great laptop for the money (<$500).
It has everything required (and more) by her college professors.
muy buena pc es una maquina de calidad, que permite mejorar el aprendizaje en los avaneces de los nuevos tiempos.
cumplio mis espectativas para uso del hogar, y lo mejor es que la puedo llevar a cualquier parte la recomiendo
The first has taken a year and a half of going back and forth to school with  a now 17 year old and still works great.
It will get him through MOS in the Marines quite adequately, came loaded with everything he will need and allow him some fun and games, too.
Also, I compared these elements; (1.)
(2.)
All required features and more supported by a world leader.
She needed a replacement immediately to complete her course work.
The sound interface is too dumb to determine whether to send sound into a USB port or not (my old Dell always "knew" what to do).
For the Alien itself "perfect".
The only thing serious would narrow the trackpad, which gives a feeling fragile.-------------------------------------------------------Es una de las ultrabooks mas potentes que existe hoy da en el mercado, hasta que casi es una notebook.
Pesa 2.1 kilogramos que podra considerarse algo pesado para una ultrabook, pero compensa la potencia de todo lo que tiene, el procesador i7 y la pantalla de 15.6" con resolucin 1920x1080!!
la batera con el wifi a full dura aproximadamente 4 horas, y la vga es mas que decente, quiz con el thunderbolt mas adelante se podr conectar una vga gamer externa para darle mas potencia.
Lo nico que acotara seria el trackpad, que da una sensacin de frgil.
tiene un peso muy bajo, solo que el cargador es muy grande y pesado.
The next time, it happened a month after the warranty (2 years).
The Magazine "LAPTOP" he Pulse Of Mobile Tec February 2013, has an aricle devoted to Windows 8 entitled "Windows 8 start up guide".
I powered it up, went through all the startup protocol, answered all the questions, created a Microsoft account, then when I was near the end I got an error "Cannot complete installation" or some such thing.
They need Excel, Word and Powerpoint :(
IE now stops responding and closes down at least once a day (I work all day on another computer)during the 2-3 hours I may use it.
Especially for only 379.99(Black Friday deal)
I have never owned a HP laptop before just their printers (which I have been satisfied with).
He uses it for his communication .
Excelente, cubre las expectativas de lo que esperas, vale la pena comprarla..........
:(
(only for updates and such) this laptop is a prime example of one that needs to be broken in to be at its finest.
the processor and graphics card are ok.(it can play 1080p video with out noticable lag) and a perfect computer for the average person.
(like one with 7200 rpms or sumthing like that)
Easy setup and lightning quick browsing(Use chrome).
In fact, I gave up trying to understand the whole "tile thing" (as I am a diehard Apple/Mac fan) and ended up giving this brand new computer to my husband.
HelloI bought this for my daughter who had saved up for 10 weeks to purchase this laptopShe was SO excited to finaly get it in the mailFinally she has a laptop powerful enough to play higher graphic games with her friends with.
I had a coworker who owned a Dell for five years and used it constantly for his job.
The application (camera, music, videos) and also the browser take a lot of time to open.
1) Wireless connection in my home inconsistent at best, drop-out of connection ever 5-10min (not the case with any other device in my home).
Los recomiendo ampliamente, el producto llego a tiempo, con  sus  especificaciones  tal  cual la publicacion,  excelente  producto, volveria a comprar otro  con los ojos cerrados.
excelente por el precio, aqu en Venezuela funciona muy bien, me llego en perfecto estado, este modelo no lo he encontrado en mi ciudad.
estoy muy contento con la rapidez en que este vendedor entrego el equipo, encuanto al equipo no hay palabras es increible, lo mejor para jugar o trabajar autocad.
took 4 hours to set everything up on Windows 8 due to Microsoft wanting to control everything (had to recreate accounts for Skype and email) and not giving proper instructions.
Low HD capacity (100gb)  & ram memmory (4gb).
The laptop comes with the A6 AMD built in graphics that has 512 mb onboard and use up to 3.5 gb of system memory to compliment it, for a total of 4gb video memory (512 mb onboard & 3.5gb shared).
(At medium graphics settings).
It started acting up a few days prior (the cursor would get stuck for a few seconds, then catch up with where I had wanted to move it).
Who knows what else would break down in the future.
( turn off.
She does not want to reccomend anyone buting off her.
Maybe because it is refurbished, there are some components that do not work well (maybe there was a defective piece inside, who knows).
That is where the problem lives, the marriage of the two.
He is "HI-TECH" so I had to do a lot of active listening to him about what "his" system requirements would be.
It was very portable for her as she was in a boarding school.
Bought for an 11 year old boy to be used for school & perfect for starters.
the color(green) is great and all this for my wife for Christmas.
My favorite color (GREEN).
The computer is for a friend who is starting college in August.
The entire system is well-designed and the speakers (Bang and Olufsen ICE) sound amazing.
Older games 3+ years old all run at high-ultra settings, including games like Fallout 3/NV, Oblivion, Age of Empires 3, Bully, Company of Heroes, Lord of the Rings BFME2, and many others without issues.
The colors are starting to not show up right *colors running together badly).
I love these, I think the best laptops I have ever had (and I have had many!).
One came with a dead and corrupt hard drive which left no gift for one child.
Is very quiet, and very fast process, I can runnings this games: Battlefield 3,4, Far Cry 3, DMC 5, Sniper Ghost Warrior 2, Dead Island, etc.. and more games... in medium setting.
(doesnt draw fps so i dont know extacly what fps)I use Adobe Photoshop CS6 as well as Premiere and After Effects.
I had to first uninstall several of the programs on here (of course I instantly got rid of the bloatware), and then reinstall them in order for them to work (netflix, skype).
This acts like the beginning of a Beta test instead of a commercial product
I recomend strongly for students (high school and college) here in venezuela.
Added a 500gb ssd (samsung 840) and this thing flies.
It did not take long for all the bad things to start happening with the new Lenovo with Windows 7, which happened with the Dell, HP, Sony and Toshiba computers now stored in the closet after their final demise.
This one had an incredible price($299 at the time).
alchemy and the green lion: the truth of the philosophers stone
A graduation gift for my son, perfect for the first year of college.
Its light enought for him travel an hour and a half to and from school, and carry it around all day.
Its like "hyperspace" from an old video game.
REALLY I ended having an IT friend fix it and she went back to school and again not working now telling her she has no hard drive on a brand new computer.
:)
She just love it so here is to education to those who can afford it.
Gift for granddaughter--she says she "likes" it but is just getting used to it.
She is a pre-med honors student,is very smart and fussy and very seldom "loves" anything----except me, LOL...... Soooooooooooooo if she "likes" it, that is good enough for me.
As soon as it was plugged in an error message appears "needs a Dell 65amp or higher" After spending over an hour running diagnostic tests the only option was to have someone from dell come to try to repair the computer.
Terrible waste of employee man hours, Dell only offered (after doing long distance diagnostics) to send a free box to send to Dell for repair and they would return it.
the help of a Dell "techie", all is well.
How did their customers become testing hamsters for all the flaws?
Be sure to get the 3rd (newest) generation processor and window 8 - you would be very happy.
When the person in charge to bring it to Brazil was packing, the computer follow down and broken.
The Laptop is for my boy friend, he is station in afghanistan  and he is using to communicate with us at home.
:(
However, it is cursed with pre-installed Windows 8 (ugh).
They instructed us to return it (our cost) and they would fix it and would wipe it clean.
My wife was left with no way to remove her many photos and school documents from the device before we sent it back.
Just takes a little time learn this one;  nothing like Windows XP, or 98; Geezzz, I must be getting old; just keep working at it..; you will learn to "like"....
Having to get a lawyer involved on a 6 month old machine to get them to back the 1 year warranty was is joke.
The only thing it did was beep 7 times in a row repeatedly (a signal that the CPU failed).
However, after owning this latop for 13 months, one month out of warranty the motherboard goes up in smoke "literally".
AND every time I call them (India) to see where it is and whats going on they tell me they have to escalate the case.
Purchased this as a replacement for my daughter when her old computer died (it was past time).
(web browsing, email, streaming music, and watching movies/tv shows)
fue una psima experiencia ya que el la computadora que me enviaron estaba defectuosa, al momento de usarla por primera vez duro encendida 5 minutos y se apag sin motivo alguno.
(Of course, I lost everything again).
I had faith in Dell (past tense) Some of the reviews commented on problems.
Then Dell "Customer Care" intervened and stopped the shipment - twice.
The cosmetics of this machine (including portability even for its 15inch sz) is on par w/ all the niceties that come w/ all late products that try to emulate a ultrathin Macbook.
Excellent hardware (except small hard drive); But not used to Windows-8...
Was put on hold so the guy could talk to his team leader.
Disadvantages - new power socket (throw away your old extra power packs) and no Ethernet input, also built in battery so cannot carry a spare.
When clicking on icon Lenovo Solution Center (seen in Desktop mode), an error appears: "Lenovo Solution Center has encountered an unexpected error and must close".
Lenovo saves me a lot of time by fast turn on and fast turn off (or, to sleep and wake up) times.6.
:)Contacted Seller/Amazon about the problem... they both said send it back for a full refund.
To each, their own.
Contacted Dell Warranty support (based in India) and sent them a picture of the display screen.
Tried to escalate but the last individual (name of Jabat Singh) refused to contact their superior and said that he would only give me the number for their out of warranty department.
( the tracking # shows it had been delivered, so we thought it had been stolen.
But actually, USPS just simply left it unsent until half a month later )The seller did not stop following up, giving advice, trying to call, doing what they can.
I spent hours looking for a way to wipe the drive before sending back to Amazon (since, of course, it came with no reinstallation media).
It almost became an intimate relationship.... my Dell XPS laptop an me .... :-)
You can run either the integrated graphics (Intel 4000) or the 650m NVidia depending on the application.
(I teach a class that uses gaming toolsets and creations of game modules).
Gaming Benchmarks:Games I have played in testing: Borderland 2, Metro 2033, Tomb Raider (new release), Skyrim, Bioware Infinite, and Fallout 3 - New Vegas.
Cheers :)
Muy buen producto, buen rendimiento a buen precio, solo que es un poco pesado y la tapa se raya muy fcil.
El resto estoy muy satisfecho con el rendimiento y productividad que tiene.
Classmates, co-workers, & family members are very jealous.
Mobile apps are the future of computing and what Microsoft has done here is incorporate the chance to have the latest and greatest apps (despite developer support being miniscule, I hope it gets better).
They accused me of lying, trying to destroy their company, among other things.
He loves it, does all that he requires for gaming and running all the things he does in setting up and creating programs.
pl?mdl=SVE1413BCXW&template;_id=1&region;_id=1&tab;=download#/downloadTab.
The computer comes with a strange (make that very strange) OS, and very few instructions.
Even trying to update Apps, leaves me with an unexplained "pending" state.
It suddenly crashes, the error says "the computer ran into some kind of a problem and needs to be restarted".
(she wanted black)
(Not loading programs, returned).
finally had a computer man came to set the computer with printer up,he said send it back your hard drive is broken.
Sony VAIO E Series SVE17137CXB 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black)
Sony VAIO E Series SVE17137CXB 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black)sony is a good computer ,but with window 8 ,horreble .
Can I exchange :-).
It was found to have a defective hard drive (both by Geek Squad and Toshiba).
Ubuntu 13.04 (Raring Ringtail) works well on this machine though dealing with UEFI was a bit tricky.
Sadly it developed a screen display problem( a line of pixals blew-out) had to return the unit.
The idea of "slide" is quite smart and practical for business man.
Bought for my son to use at school (he is a senior in high school).
The first year anything accidental is covered(liquid, shock, fire or drops).
8gb RAM, 1 TB HDD, 2.3 (upto 3.2 depending on process) ghz quad core.
Some games came pre installed with the computer, and was able to run them with no problem on decent settings, Also access to the "Store" in windows 8 (much like the Play Store, or App Store or phones) makes getting games and trying them out easy as can be.
:)
I left it unplugged, unused for 3 days (was with family) and it was fully dead when I returned.
Windows 8 does not automatically close apps (games and such) when you leave them, but that is not a huge deal.
However, when the game screen fills up with lots of action (dozens and dozens of monsters) the game can be a little sluggish, but not by much.
:-)
The Cheetah Mounts High Speed 3D compatible HDMI Cable with Ethernet and Audio Return (Newest HDMI Version) (10 feet) cables will then output sound and picture to a TV.
Note, the included Toshiba/Microsoft media players do not send pictures thru the HDMI cable but the VLC media player (free) will work fine with the HDMI driver.
Gave this laptop to my granddaughter for her promotion to high school from middle school where she excelled and was the class valedictorian.
*;-}
Was a Christmas gift to my son, and he loves it.
Quick video and excellent resolution (1080P).
(not a deal breaker by any means)
As I am writing this review I am on the phone with various levels of "support" (I use that term VERY loosely).
Having major problems hooking up to the internet (dial-up service).
The only real challenge is getting on board with Microsoft Windows 8... which like all new operating system entirely on a different approach (this one--touchscreen) it will take some time to get used to!
And works great with an external Samsung blu ray drive to watch blu ray movies (using PowerDVD software).
(adding an SSD is essential and may be difficult for some).
Ran external 65" Panasonic TV via HDMI with ease (thank you Nvadia).
I purchased this for my mother in law who has never used a computer but loves playing games on my computer when she visits.
I call, and after a painful long call, it was determined I have a "deeper" problem and have to send it back.
;)
The second one has been returned to ASUS for repair in two months and must call ASUS on a daily basis to get tech help to make it work.
For example, you can get into Windows 8 Register Editor (regedit), but you will not  find it with the blinders of its predecessors.
Repeated emails from a local computer repair man, who is officially sanctioned by ASUS for repairs, have not resulted in anything.
He, also, has decided to break all ties with ASUS after this incident.
She love it and it meet all the needs for school this year.
My son threw away nearly $400 of his hard earned and saved money.
One problem is with the touchpad in combination with Windows 8: certain movements are interpreted as "gestures" and frustrate the kids.
ALso IE and windows 8 (both come programmed) are horrible and the IE would shut off and freeze up having to do forced restarts.
com for her girls in college.
(Office)
ASUS K55N-DS81 15.6-Inch Laptop (Black)Got this item today once opened track pad did not work properly, move to the left it goes right, not responsive, after few minutes "SAD FACE" came out.
Bought this computer for may cousin who is just graduating from high school and getting ready for college.
Bought a new Asus.. in May.... the number keys(top)did not work from the get-go.... got some tench help FINALLY after hanging on forever... and the upper keys got fixed and then... Yippee... the touch pad became non-responsive.... called again(on line)for tech support... held on  for over half an hour before I hung up... called back a few hours later... hung on forever... finally got some help.... which was being told to package up the unit and send it in to be fixed... so no computer for who knows how long... and then needed to back everything up before I sent it.
The CPU is fast and the HDD is large enough (750gigs).
THE 4GB RAM IT COMES WITH IS BUILT IN (SOLDERED ON).
(SHOULD NOT MATTER TO THE AVERAGE USER)2.
Windows Experience Index Rates this PC at 5.8/7.9 (Graphics being the lowest score)
:)
He did NOT tell me to back up nor did he warn me what "refresh" meant.
I ordered this along with a120GB - Samsung 840 Series Solid State Drive (SSD) with Desktop and Notebook Installation Kit 120 sata_6_0_gb 2.5-Inch MZ-7TD120KWandKingston Value RAM 4GB 1600MHz PC3-12800 DDR3 Non-ECC CL11 SODIMM SR x8 Notebook Memory (KVR16S11S8/4).
The result is a very fast laptop with an external 500GB hard drive (The hard drive that came in the laptop).
She told me what she was looking for in a computer (word processor, internet, light photo editing, etcetera).
Has a minor issue with the track pad sticking at startup (two finger scrolling) but it comes on eventually.
very robust and durable; I just wish it was cheaper :-)
and they advertise ASUS Ultrabook S500CA-DS51T 15.6-Inch Touchscreen Laptopthat as the followBlack/15.6-Inch HD (1366*768) LED + Touch/Intel Core i5-3317U (1.7GHz) Ivy Bridge with Turbo (2.6GHz)/6GB DDR3/Intel GMA HD/500GB 5400RPM + 24G SSD/No Optical Drive/Windows 8 (64 bit)/802.11BGN/0.3MP/Bluetooth 4.0/1YR International/1YR Accidental Damage/30-Day Zero Bright Dot/2-way FREE shipping/24-7 tech supportThere is No Bluetooth, No 1YR International/Accidental Damage warranty, they lied to make sales.
She is using it mainly for her college assignments.
Installed 16GB high-speed memory (COSAIR Vengence DDR3 SODIMM, 2x8GB 1600MHz).
Purchased it for our college son and it took him a little time to get use to the set up of the icons but he has had no issues with this computer at all.
The laptop itself seems to be ok (bought for wife as gift).
Considering this was a brand new (rather marked as "New") there should have been any reason why I should have had these issues.
With my initial contact with another Asus rep, he was rather surprised to hear about the USB Port(2.0) issue occurring with a new computer.
He mentioned and I quote "1 in a million".
Change settings to "max performance".3) Like most computers, this one is loaded with useless bloatware, much of which wants to run all the time.
)4) The C-drive hard disk (under "properties") comes pre-selected for "scheduled de-fragmentation".
($250 for laptop and $100 for SSD)
It is light enough and has enough "juice" to be a permanent travel companion with Twist.
So he could not use it to play 3D games but enough for web browsing, social networking and finishing home work.
She can do all of her work and pursue her art all in one.
Second one as her first was stolen.
I tried to "upgrade" her, but she loved this one enough to shun the newer chipsets, tablets etc..
I had to take it to a friend who uninstalled all the garbage or bloatware as he called it.
We have two laptops and two tablets (Toshiba) and have had issues with ALL OF THEM.
Generous software bundle (including Adobe Photoshop Elements and Premiere Elements).3.
Sure a few people "Negative Nancy Types" can find anything wrong with everything they buy.
He is an avid game player and this small notebook has been enough to keep him happy.
Control - Alt - Delight pulls up the Task Master one time in ten tries.
The A1410 used an older version of the Celeron chip (SU2300), similar to the one in this Asus.
Unfortunately, the item was past the opportunity for a return back to Amazon when he came back from summer school in August.
Then find the "SWEET" spot, (other wise it does not respond), on the page down bar, or close window button just to initiate a function.
), charms bar.
Only got improvement, (short lived), after loading and updating external keyboard/mouse driver.
During high process action (like installation) you can hear the fan working3.
Plays HD and blueray videos (from youtube) smoothly, without any delay3.
LightCons:None (as of now)Great value for money; Very happy :)
My  Grandson  was  in need  of  a  great  computer  to  facilitate  his  schooling  in  film  directionHe  has  been  on  top  of  his  game  with the lap Top
Yes the processor is "weak" in Ghtz, but I can play any modern game I can throw at it (low settings) and photoshop with ease.
(this page will not allow the links to be posted but you can find pages searching the following)Toshiba Tech Support Rating on "Laptop part of Toms Guide"Top 694 Complaints and Reviews about Toshiba ComputersCustomer Service ScoreboardI also looked up their Facebook page and found some pretty negative commentsMore than a week later I called back and waited for another person to answer.
Today (about 8 days later) we received an email from the Aileen P. that the damage (all caps and in red) is not covered (a link to their warranty was provided) and if we would like to pay almost $300 they will repair the screen.
Not once in the email does she identify herself other than her name, there is no reference as to what the damage is OR what might have caused said damage.
Considering the volume that I have seen I can only assume that Atsutoshi Nishida (Chairman) and Hisao Tanaka (President and CEO) are still reading them.
I ran 3d mark 2003 on windows 8 and Windows 7 and the results were really different (11k on Win8 and 14k on Win7).
:)
the three star rating was  mostly due to the fact that the V on the key board needs excessive  force to implement  and with uncle author in my fingers well writing my noel ( SEE NO V IN NOVEL)  BECOMES A TASK
(My shipping and billing address was different) so after talking to a representative I was advised to cancel my order and have my boyfriend reorder on his account (which we did).
:-)
Two of them are 3.0 (one supporting USB charging).
:)
Not loaded with a lot (but some) bloatware.
She needed a lap top that still ran on Windows 7, (what she knows), and had a good wi-fi connection.
The video quality is fantastic (I subscribe to all the major sports packages so watching games online is a must in regards picture quality) and the audio is "stereoific".
I bought this computer as a gift for my friend who is in school He is so Happy with this Laptop he said it is really going to help him wiith his studies
This was a christmas gift to my fiancee as her old laptop was litteraly falling apart.
I am computer challenged so I,m not sure what all it was so I take his word for that as he is an IT professional.
My daughter love this laptop it works well for her school work, music, social media, etc.
I am going to have to order another one for myself,  the grandkids loved it so much,  and naturally being a grandperson,  I gave it to them for their school projects.
You see the hard drive has various partitions including one for the OS (Windows 8) and one for recovery information.
( just a white dash to show left and right) the cursor moves in the same way as when you use the pad itself.
The lesson of the story:There might be a few snags along the way with parts or getting used to Windows 8, but you might be surprised to find that you like the OS (after you get used to it, of course).
These are not desciption mistakes, but rather fundamental differences - what was delivered is a fundamentally different machine to what was ordered.
Hope this will help anyone having trouble with their space bar.
(Been in IT for 15 years FYI).
It becomes visible on white backgrounds if you look at the panel surface instead of looking (as one usually does) deeper into the text/graphics on the display.
ill never let her alone.
:,(
The only Cons I have for this are; it comes with Windows 8(.1), its HDD and SDD are split up into multiple partitions for no reason, and its a fingerprint magnet.
Bought this for architect hubby so he could bring his work home and not stay at the office forever.
The keys alight and are very easy to see in the dark (great for gaming or typing late night college homework).
(gaming vs checking emails and surfing the web)-Windows 8.
:)
Had an G750JW-DB71 (ROG) for less than a month but used for one week.
Only once thru a long and dreadful process were they able to personally reach out to a fulfillment center to hand bubble wrap a box for shipping has happened but yet appallingly was wrapped pre-damaged off their shelves... thus it arrived pre-damaged but packaged correctly.... not much help.
:( My son just went back to school from Xmas vac and it stopped working his first day back.
I took my time picking one (one year), alienware to other big name systems.
Purchased for a friend and he loves this a lot.
Perfect for a kid who wants to learn more about computing than the usual MS/Apple path.
The only thing that was scary was the touch(mouse) pad.
It is light and small enough for him to put in his backpack to take with him if he needs it.
He loves the webcam it has so he can talk to his friends online and the sleek look.
(up to six hours with a dimly lit screen) The CPU runs at around 5-8% on idle with firefox running.
He loves it being a linux pro,re formatted to how he likes it (changed to Unity setup from Ubuntu),added crypto,etc etc.
The Ubuntu comes with its own open source productivity suite (similar to Microsoft Office).
It only has one tiny little slot for the PCU fan (which clogs with dust) and has no way to open and dust it out.
I bought this asus1015E-DS03 10.1-inch laptop for a friend on his birthday he loves it.
Ever since he crashed (3) Windows XP desktops due to viruses and malware, he has never looked back once he switched to Ubuntu back in the 8th grade in middle school.
He is now a college student in civil engineering and almost religiously continue to use Ubuntu as his operating system since it comes with the basic office suite that works incredibly well.
I will list some of them (partial list) and leave it to other readers to add more:use as a client to other Linux/Ubuntu machines - and/or Raspberry Pi systemsuse for email, web searches, writing-editing documents (comes with Libre word processing software)use to create, store, and play MP3 music filesexcellent as a lightweight travel PCI read that it will run Windows applications as well - I have not tried to do this yet.
It makes strange noises (especially while typing).
THE INSTALL PROGRAM IS BUGGY, AND YOU WILL HAVE TO PRESS "ENTER" (CAN NOT CLICK) TO INSTALL THE PROGRAM.4.
It has a perfect balance for watching video (online or local), managing a lots of documents, editing texts or some light image edition.
But, wait 5 to 10 more seconds to lunch your app ;)
One is it comes with Windows 8 which I despise - that though is not the computers fault and I could always change it (which I will).
The touchpad is too sensitive and causes many typing errors (links back up to previous sentences).
The world has not yet caught up with "the cloud".
Very fast, very quiet, fast bootup (for Microsoft).
The computer comes with a little booklet in the box that allows you to register (for free) for one year of accidental damage coverage.
Registration was quick and easy (it must be done within 60 days of purchase).
I tested Sims 3 and call of duty on this laptop and was actually suprised by the frame rates (please note this is not a gaming a machine) .
She can do all of her school work and play her games onthis laptop.
It was for my granddaughter Ava Lehrman who lives in America with her parents.
This thing is a beast, I dont know how it plays the games it does with the specs that are on it but Ive been playing League of Legends, black ops 2, dota2, starcraft, Final Fantasy 14 mmorpg, world of warcraft all on medium settings with 60 fps, this thing stays cool as can be, and the battery life while gaming straight through is three hours which is falsely advertised but highly expected from anyone who knows a thing about computers.
He does his homework with it and plays all kind of games with it.
Son uses this for his engineering courses.
Problem is a lot of users keep their hand fixed on the mouse for long periods of time (unconsciously), thus causing more strain and more injuries.
However on setting up the computer I found the @ key and the " key to be mixed up; I was quickly sent a replacement one (I was impressed by the speed with which this was done).
My son wanted it to play fantasy football and games on line...
i have been able to actively run minecraft, aoe III, even elder scrolls oblivion (and skyrim!!!)
a gamer, a professional, even someone who just needs a computer for student use/light gaming.
Intel Celeron 1007U (1.5GHz) processor is okay.
Lesson learned about letting a friend help with anything electronic.
only knock is that every now and then it seems to stop/freeze up while its thinking about something and then it comes back (probably has to do with that devil windows 8)
In Win8 I gave up after 3 minutes - yes, I have discovered how to open a Control Panel (a trivia by itself) and clicked "New user".
And there is no way to switch to classic view without installing 3rd party software - WTF?This is completely beyond me what product manager at Asus has thought when she decided to install Win8 on the laptop (and likely they paid royalties to MS as well).
Took forever to update to Win 8.1 (days).
A friend needed a laptop and she picked this one as her first laptop.
:)
She can use it for school, watch movies and YouTube, and skype with her friends.
The only criticisms I have are the Windows 8 operating system (that has now been replaced by W7), the complicated and less-than-clear setup process, and the lack of documentation accompanying the unit.
This is my third Dell Inspiron laptop over the years (the first two were "handed down" in good working order) and have found no significant reason to change.
Lesson learned - Do not let the reviews cloud the facts.
This laptop comes with the i3 3227U CPU which has 2 physical cores and 2 virtual cores with no support for dynamic overclocking (Turbo Boost) clocked at 1.9Ghz.
Here is a suggestionCrucial 4GB Single DDR3 1600 MT/s (PC3-12800) CL11 SODIMM 204-Pin 1.35V/1.5V Notebook Memory Module CT51264BF160Bbut any 4GB DDR3 1600 CL11 SODIMM will work.
I own a Retina MacBook Pro 15" and the keys are similar, so Dell has come a long way from an older Studio 15 (1557) model I had.
With the iGPU (Intel HD4000) you can play World of Warcraft on Medium settings at 1600x900 averaging 30fps.
60+ in 5 mans 40+/- in capital cities.
The music becomes rich and deep.
I finally narrowed it down to this one and then spent time trying to find the best price (which honestly changes from day to day on many sites).
Of course my old computer was 85 years old in computer years (5 years), so this machine seems like a wonder comparatively.
I purchased this in September (it is now April) and I just now tried to use the bluetooth.
Worked on the 25th (thank goodness) and crashed on the 26th.
Waiting on dell to send new hard drive (error code 2000-0142).
(she loves the touch screen).
I gave this item as a gift to a niece that recently graduated from nursing school.
THIS IS AMAZING, ONLY COMPLAINT..... MIRCOSOFT OFFICE IS ONLY PRELOADED AS 30DAY TRIAL, MAJOR SET BACK , AS THIS IT TO BE SCHOOL COMPUTER, COLLEGE -SINGLE MOM W/AUTISTIC 4 YR OLD
Bought this laptop as a gift to a friend who lives in Brazil.
i have put ubuntu (a linux operating system) on it and it worked well with out having to set anything up.
Differences between the $999 Y510p and this one, that make this one a much better deal:1. this one comes with the maximum 16 Gigabytes of RAM installed (2x8GB), the $999 one only has 8 GB  (2x4GB)2. this one has the 24 GB solid state drive installed, the other one does not come with a SSD4.
touchscreen + Intel i3 cpu for less than $500 (current price as of now) at year 2013, good deal to meI was lucky enough to purchase this notebook $399 from amazon during the black friday sale.
Despite cancelling the order and re-ordering a new one, they still shipped the cancelled order on the 11/18.
Same story, they will reroute and do credit when the laptop returns to their warehouse - even though they will not process a reroute...  11/25: First attempted delivery to my house... reroute still not done, credit still not done and the second machine I order was also cancelled.
Great job lenovoCrisis 3 on Ultra settings, with no V-sync, 60fpsBattle Field 4 High settings with tweak some ultra settings, No Anti-aliasing, no V-sync, online 40 - 60fpsTitanFall Beta High settings, no V-sync, online, 50fpsCons: the case is a magnet to all kinds of oils, dust.
(I was worried at first, the wording is vague)1x8gb of ram DDR3 were included as statedUpdate:This thing is blazing fast.
also... it said my computer wouldnt ship until tomorrow(the 8th).
shipped a week early due to new stock and got to me still ahead of schedule (estimated date of arrival was for the 9th).
And the only trouble is i can only install a NGFF SSD(MAX 32G)4.
The balance is a little off (like many other laptops) so when you open the lid the bottom of the laptops lifts up.
It took me a while to get dual boot to work (I have set up dozens of dual boot systems in the past) due to the switch to UEFI from the BIOS.
:)
(Uniquesizzle)
Had nothing to give my son and he had to leave to go back home with no present.
Good affordable laptop for people who want latest (almost) configuration but a little less than high end laptops.
It has i5 processor, 4GB of ram and best of all with Lenovo is the one touch (key) recovery.
This is a wrong information listed on many website that the max ram supported on this laptop is 16gb (2*8GB), not 8GB.
I still use a Lenovo T41 from (I believe) 1997 because it refuses to die.
Exact half(right) goes black.
Excelente en todos sus funciones, muy liviana, rpida y el acabado es elegante.
La uso para negocios y todos quedan asombrados con la pantalla y el peso.
Excelente duracin de la batera y no es necesario la pantalla touch es suficiente con el touchpad.
La recomiendo para alguien que viaje mucho y necesite una buena maquina con peso reducido.
La actualice a WIN 8.1 sin problema.
Ideally Samsung should have bundled it in by default.- if you need lots of ports or you are an avid gamer (casual gaming is fine) .. this may not be the laptop for you.
I have a Series 9 (new edition) and love it.
), lightning fast (takes 1-2 seconds to resume or 5-6 seconds to turn it on).
REPEATED HELP  BY EXPERT IT FRIENDS revealed other traps.
Do not believe the seller when he says that his laptops are refurbished.
I own a smartphone (galaxy), tablet (samsung), chromebook, ipod, and needed a laptop (something to run windows 7---hate windows 8).
Had to get rid of Macafee (sp?)
Bought one for Wife, Dad and Aunt.
Unless it knows how to do house chores ;).
?I receive the recovery disks and after trying to run the recovery disks 3 TIMES the computer would crash when I got to the 4th disk (I am not incompetent with computers).
Excellent for my young son to play games and learn a new language.
Just starting high school and needed a new updated one to work with - this was affordable for me, and perfect for him.
Usually when I try to get online following a couple hours of sleep mode, I click the chrome icon (have tried IE with same result) - the icon becomes highlighted and then nothing happens.
This was a gift for a high school graduate that is going to college.
No CD player however, so I have to struggle with a different  (Windows 8) machine when I need to do anything that requires a CD.
In other words, they wanted to put something of an OS on it to ship it, but they realize that Linux users each have their own favorite distribution.
No idea why the manufacturer did not simply pre-install a full-featured Linux (which users could subsequently wipe off if desired).2) I had a bit of a tough time installing Ubuntu (14.04 LTS) on the machine, had to mount the USB drive at boot time, after that the original disk system got corrupted, had to create a recovery disk, took nearly 2 hours mucking through it.
(As others commented, a novice would find it pretty challenging)PROS1) Once installed, Linux runs very smoothly.
Light, powerful, windows 7, 4gb ram (upgradable to 8gb), 500gb disk, etc.
The computer is "possessed", the letter "h" just fills in by itself.
To start off, this netbook originally was meant to be a Windows 8 but for some reason, Acer decided to downgrade them to Windows 7 (maybe because they are selling more with Win7 than Win8).
All you need is (1) 4GB ram stick.
Do not buy from B&D; company.
The "security seal" on the computer box itself looked sketchy, not new.
The company has been aware from day 1 of our concerns, yet when we told them we decided to return the unopened computer because of concerns regarding how poorly it was packed and the representation, they told us there would be at minimum 15% restocking fee and based on their findings (and who controls that) a possible higher fee!
We decide to buy a notebook instead of another desktop (even a compact desktop).
I bought this laptop for my sister for $600+tax (on sale) for back to school back in August 2013.
(Lol)
Ideal for someone on the go or for a high school students.
The box was not factory new (dirty and had all kinds of labels on it covering the original surface).
The "Starter" MS Office (Word) did not function like I expected it to.
This is the same as almost all laptops.2) Laptop runs hot (as should be expected of a gaming laptop).
Battery with a long life (at least for now).
I have got 2 BSOD in first 2 months: for one i had to reinstall the windows following the indications from the producer, for the second i had just to make an update of the drivers (even if was not required); hope to not get more from now on.
After 4 months... the battery lost 50% of the power... the cooler is running like crazy and the only one thing that the as-called " technical support" can say (in the fortunate case when they answer to you) is to reinstall windows or to wait because it will calm down.
Surprisingly shoddy workmanship in chassis -  construction of the drive (felt flimsy), touchpad (felt flimsy), overall chassis - did not feel sturdy2.
(needless to say my friends are pretty jealous).
(or even one of the other msi G-series laptops)
Basically its like having a tablet and computer in one, and you have to go out of your way to download desktop applications (for example, Skype), otherwise it will open in "tablet mode".
Games (like bioshock) looking awesome in full resolution and with maximum rendering option.
I get maybe 3 hours of regular use( not playing video games) which is a shame because i am also using this computer for school.
Far Cry 3, Dead Island, Bioshock Infinite, Assassins Creed III and IV, Fallout 3, Half-Life 2, Team Fortress 2 all running at 1920x1080 resolution and Ultra High Graphics Settings with no issue.
After less than two months of daily use, this machine managed to corrupt the OS (Win 8.1) so badly that it could not longer boot up.
Tech support had no solution other than to wipe the drive, losing ALL data, and returning the system to "factory new" condition.
The companies technical and customer support is atrocious save yourself a great deal of let down with the product and save yourself the headache of trying to deal with their "Customer Support" if it can even be called that.
Once I received it I began playing very graphics intensive games such as Crysis 3 (a code for the game does come with the laptop), Space Engine, and Portal 2.
That is, until, I discovered that a had a downloaded a faulty System Control Manager (SCM) from the CD GX70 came with--SCM is used to crossfire the APU and the GPU.
It will game at least an hour and a half on battery (had 26% battery still) with modern titles -DX 10 & 11.
exe).2.
RIGHT CLICK the command prompt icon and choose "Run As Administrator"  - you must have administrator rights.3.
like always MSI the best laptop i ever bought , i own 2 of them now , one of them 2 years  old 780R and still running most gamesthis new beast GT60 work like a charm with SSD its fast , great sound (speaker)got a friend who bought alienware 17m at the same time at almost same price , he hated his laptop since he used this beast GT-60MSI one of the best laptop around
(Note: I did have the turbo on.)
This machine can play any game on the highest settings, including Metro Light (everything max and SSAA on 2x).
I showed my son whohas his own business and he bought one also.
:)
young college freshman that are wanting a hybrid laptop for gaming and school, do not get this laptop.
They returned it within days (which should have been a warning sign) but the problem was still there.
Boots fast (good point)6.
Ctrl alt del or powering down was the only way to get it working (temporally).
I bought this computer for my 9 year old son for his b-day he was playing 2hrs max but he also does his homework when he forgets his books at school he prints it and start working he loved it so much I will rate it 5 stars
The people who report this issue get nowhere - HP is clueless to resolve this issue.
Search Google for "centrino 2230 disconnect".
Perfect for all his homeschooling AND GAMING NEEDS :)Delivery was decent timing and packaging was perfect.
Gifted to father for Christmas, he is learning and I have tried it some.
(I am still learning this new mode.)
GREATThe simplest, easiest OS from Linux/Google in an HP notebook (?)
She wanted to be able to browse the internet and write documents for middle school.
After investigating different kinds; she suggested the Chromebook.
Forget the old "plug and play" concept.... unless maybe you have a Chromebook specific printer.
This was originally a comment for the (yes, "the") 1-start review, but I think it might be useful to a more general audience.
(As I just learned, also "Skype".
)2) Do you know any alternatives to them?For office on Mac try iWork and for all platform try Google Doc.
I sent it in and it was returned with a bad hard drive (all saves were rapidly corrupted).
SHE HAS TAKEN IT TO SCHOOL ONE OF HER TEACHERS IS THINKING OF BUYING ONE.
Finally, I bit the bullet and forked out the money for this thin beauty (I call mine Ray... and I pet it and feed it virus protected games from Steam).
However, your home is not filled with 60 TVs (at least mine is not).
Amazon shipped the wrong unit at first (a 256gb SSD).
My concern was protecting it for him because he always has it in his backpack.
What did they seen in their dream to create this masterpiece.
Equipted with engaugible netgear usb plugin (free).
USB 3.0, wireless N, 750 GB of internal storage, 6GB DDR3 SDRAM (upgradeable to 16GB).
Playing Battlefield 4 on low gfx (defaulted) had well over 60fps, but I witnessed temps climb to around 88C-90C.
The wireless will randomly disconnect from a router (linksys-cisco) in the same time when some other devices (phone, other laptop) will have a good connection to that router.
I was trying to find something to give my son for his birthday, and this was "crackin" as he says.
My sister has been using it for college (architecture major) and she never had a problem running the specific software
I got another larger Toshiba laptop (17.3) for my wife for work, but it was too big, so she gave met that and I got her this one.
Hard to learn, and frankly an operating system (OS) for tablets, not for laptops.
Each time I received this computer (3 attempts in all), something either was already wrong or quickly went wrong.
This laptop using CPU Intel Pentium Dual Core 2020M 2.4 GHz  (Old generation CPU, and it has two cores) while the other one is Intel Core i3-3120M 2.5 GHz (4 cores).
I have an early t satellite (7 yrs old) that is running xp flawlessly to this day.
I bought two of these laptops for my sons (6th and 10th grade) to use for school.
She can sit on the couch and finish her work without being tied to the office.
She is graduating and will need something for college next year.
He is able to keep up with his email account and respond from home every day.
Just today, he told me that he had pulled up an application for a job and sent it in electronically.
This is my second Toshiba product (now I have two laptops by Toshiba) and they both live up to their expectations.
helped a friend buy this because his laptop was un-repairable due to having liquid poured on it, he loves it!
Five (5) messages later we are still trying to explain what we need.
Would I go with the same seller (antonline)?
However, after about a year the keyboard began acting up, throwing in  a string of ssssssssss and other wierd characters.
A few magic words you will need to know if you are going to consider buying a Aleinware (owned by Dell), or already own a Dell " I AM GOING TO DISPUTE THE CHARGES WITH MY CREDIT CARD COMPANY" these few simple words will work wonders for you when dealing with these people.
after informing them my dispute was with Alienware (a Dell owned company), they said it was no problem disputing the charges, even though they were over 8 months old (seems like Dell & associates are well known by credit card companies).
Also google Dell Su*ks and read the horror stories about Dell, and how they treat our soldiers in other countries.
Now to be fair Dell business computers seem to be decent, but for the average consumer.. you mean nothing to them after the sale is made (IMHO).
Go with Acer, Asus, Sony, (not a big fan of H. Ps) Samsung.. even Apple (expensive and proprietary) and save yourself a headache (IMHO).
Seriously weigh the cost/benefit of of company who will sell you a product and not stand behind it.
Video and games run well.2 problems:- iphone keeps disconnecting and connection every seconds.
bought it for girlfriend for college to replace her macbook pro(which had overheating issues even with a chill mat)has worked top notch for over a year, great buy for the price.
The Space Bar requires much greater pressure than other keys (abnormally so).
rather than 8 (Boo!)..
One of the key "T" has come off.
It instructed me to create a set of recover discs, but after inserting the first of four DVDs the program calls for the process failed and the disc tray would not open - despite several  reboots.
The other odd thing is that when this Toshiba attempts to register itself, the Toshiba registration website declines to "take the call."
daughter loves the computer, plays animal jam nonn stop and does her homework with ease.
He knows what he is used to and his daily computer tasks, but will be intimidated by new technology or change.
This came from a private dealer so no guarantee from Dell (found this out when my computer teacher was setting it up).
The processor is fast and works well for his online games (minecraft).
She loved her new laptop.
com/Dell-Inspiron-i15RVT-6143BLK-TouchScreen-Laptop/dp/B00GMWK71MWith better CPU i3 vs Pentium, and almost same(or cheaper) price.
Computer contained all he needed to replace his old Dell XP Latitude D 820.
Thekeyboard does not workproperlly (specially the space bar).
Fast processor and plenty of storage space (750GB).
BOUGHT THIS FOR MY SON FOR HIS FIRST YEAR OF COLLEGE 2013.
:-)
(after a couple uses it was still to much of a pain to operate/figure out so it became backup/doorstop/empty desk filler)Tried to return it to the store after 20 days yet they have a 14 day return policy on HP because they know it is a crap product Have now spent over three hours on the phone and countless emails just to send it in and to get it "fixed".
(award winning service???)
If nothing else lesson learned and now I have a designer doorstop once they send it back from getting "fixed"
Stil struggling with windows 8, but starting to learn some of the tricks.
A couple of issues: the power cable part, before the converter says "125 volts" which is bad news for traveling.
I believe they should send both cables ot let you know that the power cord is not for both commmon volts (110 and 220).
She is a college student and the versitality this laptop/tablet offers is exactly what she needed and wanted.
Love the idea that the keys are backlit!Although the top of the lid doesnt seem to strong (it feels like it could crush easily), the base is exceptionally strong.
The only cons (that were not strong enough to lose a star):- The Touchpad:The touchpad is awful, but I am glad that is one area of comprimise and not somewhere else.
I use it for work ( I work from home as a real estate agent) and it works great.
Just what he wanted for game play.
In Chinese you have to pay more than 20,000rmb (about 3,300 dollers) for the same configurationslaptop.
The product description is very misleading; only later into the description AFTER it claims the computer I bought is 3.4, it then says (up to 3.4 ghz).
- that why one star less ) .
:)
If you understand the concept of the Chomebook (an internet only inexpensive barebones however fast system) and you have proper expectations of the computer you are in for a real treat.
Contacted customer service via chat and was told to return the product as there is no replacement (out of stock).
However the harddrive was damaged and it took a total of 15 days (1 day after their return policy for anything defective) to completely break down.
Ideal for students and people a lot and for aAmazing user experienceWriting a paper or lecture notes became a game :)
The bloatware is bad but not terribly bad (see Dell, HP, etc..).
You can see the aluminum chassis deflects more in the middle (shame... some internal spacers would have easily resolved this).
I am considering returning the product (if I can) and shell out the bucks for a Zenbook.
As a computer professional (30 years in the industry), I am very skilled with software - but not W8.
Found the perfect driver collection on ... the Lenovo support site, of all places (file name hsd607ww).
(Was an issue with the dual-core he had ) Plays minecraft and Roblox seemlessly.
He is a gamer and a techno guy.
The Part you Used The Most (mouse Pad) C- MOUSE PAD Sucks on This One
Compared to other computers that I have owned that were "gaming" computers, this one blows them out of the water.
This Samsung was purchased to assist my daughter with her school work for nursing school .
were not even straight; apparently they were placed with human hands rather than a machine but obviously not with any personal care or concern for attention to detail.
Swank  ;-)
Also, booting time is damn long unlike what it says "True 2-Second Instant On".
I am unable to print with my Canon printer (one year old).
So reluctantly and after a week of attempts to forge a working relationship with the Asus, I returned it and am awaiting a new Dell tower complete with Windows 7 Pro.
:(
The mouse click is often erratic (right click vs left click).
I like the touchscreen - a big convinience for some tasks and useless for others (ie office applications.)
The product is advertised as a NEW Dell Inspiron computer with pre-installed Office Professional 2013 software (not a trial version).
(Note: If you ask Microsoft about it on one of their forums, they claim there is a setting under Pen and Touch that says "use finger as an input device" allowing you to enable or disable the touch screen.
Mine went off 2 days in a row and then a couple of days later after that.
They replaced a bunch of components inside but a week later it died again, another motherboard problem (??).
The Acer Aspire S3-391-6497 13.3-Inch Ultrabook (Champagne) is fantastic.
(Repeat the cycle of full charge => full used for three times)This term can not be found in the quick guide and other printed materials.
It starts very quickly (solid state drive) and performs well under pressure of multiple applications open at once.
I was badly disappointed!Four days after the 30 day return limit (which is now 8 days) the LAN system began to fail.
His conclusion was that there must be a Virus (I was using Norton which was on the computer).
The solution he advised was to wipe the installation and re-install from the recovery disk (I ALWAYS create a recovery disk immediately upon getting a new computer).
well just got it yesterday (love the 1 days shipping).
Lamentablemente se recalienta muchisimo, lo que ha sido corregido con un buen enfriador, de dos ventiladores.
She and her friends are pretty tech savvy and she loves it.
We were blessed with a second child and where my gaming PC (personally built) would normally be located (large nook in the living room); we needed that nook to make a third bedroom.
The second fell a short difference onto a soft surface and the corner of the computer bent (very flimsy) causing it to arc from the power cord to the computer preventing it from charging and creating a fire danger potential from the arcing.
:(
My teen ordered this for himself and loves the gaming abilities.
Bought this for mu husband when his last HP pavilion died.
I believe having support is NOT hiring idiots from another country to try to resolve issues they have NO knowledge of.
Called HP support (short wait time) and they sent out a replacement unit via overnight.
I will not be changing the driver as I dont like to fix what isnt broke!Battery - The battery under stress (read: gaming) is awful.
To purists this may be a dealbreaker, but it honestly has no impact on usage at all.3D Mark - 2415Windows Experience (On Windows 7 SP1):Processory - 7.6RAM - 7.8Graphics - 7.3Gaming - 7.3Hard Drive - 7.9
i7 and GTX765m you can play almost games, but take care her because she is slim so she may be hot :)17 and 1080p  a HD screen you may use mostly.
The split SSD drive (while allegedly faster) is a pain to use as you cannot repartition it and must store things on a different partition when one gets full and then remember where it is.
Tks the engineers who figure out a way to do that.
When I received it this time, I found they had done exactly the same thing (replace the SSD).
Real world usage is around 4 hours and depends on your usage habits (another reason for 4-stars).
(bump up the dpi when not in X) The second and final issue, is that if not positioned properly, the edge your wrists will rest on can get a little sharp and dig in.
install applications with a lot of write traffic to E drive instead of C (to preserve your SSDs)
This was bought by my son who is heading into college as a budding architect.
Loves the graphics, works well with his CAD and gaming so he now has both of his worlds together in one.
yes this model (the G750 JH) includes assassins creed IV black flag for free.
If you want to play a game, he is the one.
:) was umming and rrring whether to spend this kind of money - but its been great, had small issues at start with power cable and touchpad but once released new patches the issue disapeered.
Received this laptop with a dead GPU fan which caused temperatures over 100C, contacted ASUS who (after a week) told me its normal for this laptop.... BS.
Cores never go over 70c and the gtx780m never goes over 80c (even with extreme stress tests).
Though in concept it may seem like a great idea to be able to render the text among multiple devices "universally"; in practice, it just set personal computers back several years (Great job Microsoft!).
(But the problem seems to disappear gradually.
I think it is not long enough, when I use it in the library, it sometimes cannot reach the socket (- -|||)2.
Not the latest technology, but buy it for a young student who starts and needs to learn.
One is in college and one is in high school.
I bought two of these for my kids to use for school and general use (Internet, light gaming, etc.)
In an age where companies do not keep inventory, but contract directly with manufacturers to ship products to customers, it has proved difficult to get a replacement battery.
plastic covering one of the hinges popped open and wont snap back in place (cosmetic issue only).
Put win seven on it which was a colossal feat(just try and you will see why), only to find that the hardware is completely incompatible.
Bought as a Christmas Gift for my daughter-in law who is a Nurse and a teacher at local collage, loves the touchscreen.
However, the same thing happened after I  this time knowingly - updated an outdated driver (I just followed a notification from the taskbar).
As these actions did not change anything, she eventually diagnosed a defective hardware component.
Two graphic card(Intel HD4000 and Nvidia Geforce) could satisfy my requirement of GPU programming.
I did not buy this to game though (being able to play on the go is just a plus), I needed a laptop that could handle programming and be able to use Production tools such as adobe master collection and visual studio as well as some 3d rendering.
).
Thanks :)
The built in main 750M is okay for most models (however many are factory defective and does not have thermal paste applied properly), however the Ultrabay VGA may be a deal breaker for many people.
The 650M in the Ultrabay can operate on relative acceptable temps (max 176F-185F), however the higher clocked 750M (and also the 755M) with higher core voltage will reach 208F in a matter of minutes and starts to throttle with GPU intensive games, like Crysis 3, Bioshock Infinite, Witcher 2, etc.
It runs without any lag on any internet game I want (like league of legends).
It has everything he wants to play all his games on it.
He also uses it to do his school work and talks to all his friends on Skype.
Only problem is it does not have Optical drive ( DVD-ROM ).
&#128070;&#128076;&#128076;
had to take to a friends house to connect to his internet in order to get set up.
She might as well learn to use Win 8.
He will be excited to have his own and have to share with is sister and mother.
This is the second ASUS we have purchased in the last year; this one for my wife and her business (restaurant.)
No SSD Drive (its hybrid, normal HDD with SS cache).
I found the transition to the new operating system (Windows 8) difficult and frustrating.
Love it - The Lenovo IdeaPad S210 59387503 11.6-Inch Touchscreen Laptop (Black) - is Small, portable, and quick.
Para el precio que pague, $380, obtuve el producto que buscaba, compacto, liviano, gil, muy bien construido, la pantalla toushscreen es una excelente alternativa, procesador rpido.
Como de costumbre su nico inconveniente es Windows 8.1, sigue siendo pesado, difcil de operar, y es complicado entenderlo para alguien que no conoce mucho de computadoras, de resto el equipo ha satisfecho todas mis expectativas.
I always buy Lenovo (and IBM before them).
Format a USB stick (at least 4GB free space) using FAT32 (NTFS will not work).2.
EFI from an existing Windows 8 or 8.1 installation (the one you are building this USB installer on).
EFI (case insensitive).
My son was away at collage and his Sony Vaio screen hinges detatched from screen (dont by a Sony Vaio).
with an 8GB RAM module (e. g. $70, PNY 8GB DDR3 1600 PC3-12800 204-Pin CAS CL11 Memory Module (MN8192SD3-1600)).
One of those screws was additionally under a warranty sticker ;-) After that I used a credit card to force open the plastic chassis (see diagram for the location to start).
I just made it half open and exchanged the RAM module, press the chassis together and put in the screws (only lightly fastened).
I get 3h to 4h (optimized power consumption).
Even capable of playing 3D games at lower resolutions (WOT).
Also, the power adapter provided supports universal voltage (110-240).
With SLI, 16GB RAM and the SSD it is a great machine for business multitasking (lots of excel, outlook, 90 chrome tabs).
Battery operation(fully charged) starts at about 9+ hours and seem to last and last with built in power saver operations managing battery use.
Owners manual ONLY tells you how to physically(literally) tear the unit down to the frame and remove every component but has no operational value whatsoever, which leaves you with the 2 page quick start guide only.
(e)  When you touched it, it continued to put Es across the page until you physically lifted up the key or hit it several times.
Configuration (i7 processor, 8GB RAM, 1 TB HDD)2.
His ideals for us characteristics.
After firing it up, running all of the Windows Updates (Including Windows 8.1 update) and then manually removing all of the bloatware it runs like a champ.
By the way, if I would have the oportinuty to change something, I would change the OS (Win 8) to Ubuntu or Win 7
So far, Ive had good luck with Dell computers and have previously purchased six of them (5 for grandkids).
Unfortunately, Windows 7 support (drivers, etc) will be going away.
As a Matte Painter this machine tears down through programs like Maya, 3DS Max, Cinema 4D and Photoshop.
This thing will handle anything from the Full time (Hardcore) games to the Graphic Designer.
I have been playing some games as well (Assassins Creed, The cave, Portal) and have had no issues.
She loves it and made a great personal gift for her birthday.
They never used it until June(first and only time for about 5 min)... A week later when they turned it one again the screen stuck on Automatic repairing then screen went black.
It is his independents, he is like a big boy.
Whenever he want to look up something he just use his Dell laptop instead of the home computer and he watch movies on it with his other 2 brothers.
So far (about 3 weeks) of daily use, no problems whatsoever.
A properly licensed PC should include either a Genuine Microsoft Label or a Certificate of Authenticity (COA) Label.
packed Beautifully, one draw back - Windows 8 .... found solution "Classic Shell" software makes it look and somewhat operate like Windows 7- will order from this Seller again !!
It works great for him and he uses it to watch movies, play games, and do a few school assignments!
;)
:(
Pros:- 0.8 inch thick (this thing is crazy thin)- A8-4555m quad-core CPU is plenty powerful for everything I have run.
My L502X is now lasting up to 8 and a half hours on a full charge under light stress (Photoshop and Lightroom).
He was able to connect during flights and play games and communicate.
Sometimes, response seems slow( not instant but say 20-30 sec wait time).
Got it for my sister who lives in another state since her 3yrs old intel celeron laptop is overheating and so far she loves it.
However, this week, out of the blue, the the computer showed an error: "No Bootable Device" which is basically that the hard drive was dead.
My son, who is 10 years old, saved up his money for almost two years to buy his very own lap top.
Only drawbacks are windows 8 (not their fault) and sharp corners.
Now loaded office 2010 pro and I am ready to go - all in all 5 minutes to set up (after charging)!
), at least for simultaneous word, excel mailing and outlook and browsing.
the real specs areIntel Core i5 4200M(2.5GHz)6GB Memory 750GB HDDNVIDIA GeForce GT 720Mresolution 1366 x 768Windows 8DVD Super Multi
Let me tell that one first :)Good communication with the seller; quick responses for my questions, and collaboration of the seller for solving problems.
They said Eastern weather was to blame, what is wrong with telling the Customer instead of leaving him hanging?
It works great for surfing the net, using Microsoft office (which is included free), streaming movies, and just about anything else you may want to do.
The only drawback is the clumsy, Windows 8.1 which has changed a number of established (20-year) keystrokes and taken away the "START" menu.
It has no optical (CD/DVD) drive.
This was easy to set up(except for our email account)!
mine is silver on the outside --- not a big deal
He picked this unit based upon his needs and expertise.
My son has had his Dell computer for about 8 yrs and it belong to his dad before that and he had it for 5yrs.
When it arrived, my son was blown away by all of the features that came with the system, he could not stop thanking his dad and I for the new computer.
He was put on hold for a "return specialist".
The call was finally answered only for him to be told yet again he needed to talk to a "return specialist".
Beware of dealing with this company - if you ever have to return anything, they will make it next to impossible to do so.12/18/13 - eveningHave received an e-mail from Dell.
They say they are going to e-mail me a return label - hopefully the situation will finally be resolved!
Installed a 120G ssd (7mm) and 8G dimm from Amazon (CT102464BF160B).
This is my second Alienware (First was a M17XR2).
This machine runs WoW in ultra graphics in 25 man raids with xSplit streaming to Twitch tv, dual monitor using a Vizio M Razor LED 120hz HD TV at 60 to 100 Frames per second and latency between 60 and 100 ms.
Our son got this for his birthday and he was amazed.
It was a great gift for a soon to be college student who enjoys gaming.
I have this computer for 1 year and three months (of course the 3 months are important) and I use it just for work nothing estrange like overclocking etc.
However, the time finally came when my mom started watching Korean dramas using her iPhone, which I thought was a bad idea when she follows 20+ episodes a week.
Exterior is very nice, the top shell is a sort of rubberized material while the bottom has more of a bumpy (to create friction?)
I did not want to deal with trying to teach my kids about Windows split personality (Metro side vs. desktop side).
The kids use Google Drive for all their academic needs, listen to music on Pandora/Spotify, have apps for photo and video editing, and found games they like.
Comes with 2 years of cloud storage(100 gb) for free, 2 month trial of googles music service, and a bunch of other really cool freebies.
Purchased for daughter for school work, and she uses it everyday.
This baby runs so cool (I mean this literally - no more burnt thighs!)
But any way i mainly got this becasue of the free word documents you can creat on here ( i am a college student).
com/gp/product/B00J49ZH6K/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp;=1789&creative;=390957&creativeASIN;=B00J49ZH6K&linkCode;=as2&tag;=civcikdx-20
The outside surface behind the monitor is a white matte finish (white on my machine) and there is a 1 (or so) silver HP logo in the middle.
The left side (back to front) has a Kingsington lock point, HDMI port, two USB ports, an audio in/out jack and an LED on light.
A happy daughter a happy father.
So far the Chromebook 14 is still a winner with my daughter, allowing her to do all of her increasingly online based homework.
My young daughter (7) got on it and navigated easily.
After watching several TV commercials (probably by Microsoft) denigrating the Chrome-books, I wondered whether these units were actually as good as advertised.
Having a Google enterprise on the cloud... gmail with a skin over it (Joe@JoeMosley.
com), calendar, contacts, drive (cloud storage), etc.
I bought this for my mother to replace her ancient (yet classic) eMac.
(I have all), So far I have not found anything that I cannot accomplish on the Chromebook that I want to.
:)
It arrived very quickly (In about 3 days).
She is into photography and it works well for photo editing.
(Again, per HP.)
(There is a "guest" option but it limits use even more.)
Make and print documents, watch movies, play games--all of it.
It can last for 10+ hours of constant use (writing papers)Cons:The restricted UI sometimes leaves you wanting.
Never have to worry about missing homework or leaving at home, everything is automatically saved in the cloud and therefore she can access her work from anywhere.
One of (if not ) the best google laptops out there.
No junk on it by default(meaning adware apps)its simple and works.
(at least for the life of t-mobile or when they use some acquisition shenanigans to dump it).
I tried a "powerwash" of the device (reset factory settings) to no avail.
)*Useful extensions.
*Fast operating systemCons:*Limited apps, (no skype for instance)
Now that I am retired and my lap-top (I used for my previous business interests) died, I am happy to say I was able to get all the computing power I now need (and more) in this attractive lap-top.
I obviously try not to damage it but it has survived the infamous falls and kicks and such that go along with being in a backpack.
The package had clearly been opened before and returned (not one security tape was in tact, no plastic packaging inside, and powercord had "HP Chromebook" hand written in silver sharpie on it).
Had to return it- but hoping to try another one- love the idea of the Chromebook.
When it crashed (and i lost everything) for the second time i decided i needed a new device.
the only drawback i have to it is that i cant play the sims on it (im addicted) BUT my old toshiba is back up and running (slowly, but its running) so i can still use it for gaming.
He has an HP laptop too but it is too bulky to go into his backpack.
He has now recounted on a daily basis how helpful it is to have his own dedicated laptop for school at school.
Their school has most of the curriculum online now and largely interfaces through Google docs for written assignments.
He is getting homework assignments done at school during study session as well.
BEST LOOKING (IN MY OPINION) CHROMEBOOK, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE CHROMEBOOK PIXEL.
The small size and weight (2.3 pounds) allows him to carry it around all day.
His school already standardized on Google Apps so his friends can just log into his Chromebook with their own Google log in and securely share the machine.
She also had no trouble streaming movies through the play movies app and youtube.
This chromebook will not replace the PC or Mac for people who use it professionally (engineers, programmers, or scientist who use some specific professional software).
But this is not good--Google, Samsung (they have one) and HP need to get back to the drawing board on this one...
I bought the chromebook to use for paying bills, email, games, and networking (mostly).
Designed obsolescence sure is getting faster & faster (first every couple years, now every couple weeks... technology kinda becoming like a disposable razor!?!)
Girl cried her eyes out when she open her present.
then a battery recall....(still waiting for replacement)then unable to charge.... then unable to open...... then backordered... so no return possible.
Set up easy, online tutorials to acclimate to the new excel and word (which have finally left the last century) Will probably recommend for the sales force at work.
This was agraduation gift for a young grandchild.
She loves it and finds it meets all of her needs.
An overwhelming success, and hats off to Lenovo.
Quick question - Given that these models do not come with the digitizer pen (As sold on Amazon), would it work if one were to buy the digitizer pen separately on Amazon?
Too big, too much and it felt a little heavy (4.9 pounds).
Can play most games (League of Legends, WoW, Diablo III, SC II, Fez, etc)League of Legends plays at the 1368 x 768 resolution at 60fps.
I had to use a USB mouse (which is ok, I would never play an RTS game without a traditional mouse)The tablet DOES have a fan in the system on the tablet portion for cooling purposes.
You can also upgrade the RAM to 8GB and install a 2.5"HDD in the keyboard base for increased storage (will be attempting both of these upgrades and will report back with the results).
It just gives it that feel like a quality product (Similar to a macbook).
Picked this up for the wife to use, she wanted something to watch her workout videos on.
A few family members chipped in and bought this laptop as a birthday gift for a 17 year old girl.
org they are moving all of their operations to their lodge in Burkeville, VA where they take care of retreats and vacations for visually impaired folks and their caretakers.
(after some tweaks and upgrades for their uses)
It has a more powerful processor (a 2 ghz dual core instead of an Atom).
Instead of doing the right thing he hide behind the amazon refund policy.
:) Good price and it does everything he wants to do, although the new operating system took a little learning.
I bought this at BestBuy for $317.99 (including tax) during the Black Friday sale.
Returned to Toshiba for repair and they are wanting $800 to replace the touchscreen ($730 for the part).
Technology is just moving too fast to invest 1000 + dollars into something that ultimately becomes "obsolete" in a few years.
After overcoming an initial clumsey setup to a strange language I could not connect to my email, (password not accepted), so I returned the unit for a refund which was quickly activated.
Can play new games as medium to high.
It has a good amount of memory, a disk drive(which is becoming harder to find), and a web cam.
It is the perfect size fo him to carry on the job so he can do his patient notes anywhere he goes.
He watches a lot of movies (DVD and Netflx) and said the picture is very nice and sharp.
Old guy frustrated with having to stumble around a new operating system.
It plays the kinds of games my kids play (wow and minecraft) very well.
As the memory controller is on the cpu one can add up to 16 gigs of ram (two 8 gig sticks).
Recommend to others:-)
My wife is returning to university to obtain her msn  and ultimately be a nurse practitioner.
Bought this for my daughter for her first year of college.
Feels like theater(may not be as good as that).
para mi fue un completo chasco, compre esta laptops ilusionado, que tendra un porttil de buen rendimiento, y cuando la recibo, resulta que no me trajo la factura, y la batera no funcionaba, es decir no agarra carga, solo la puedo usar cuando la tengo conectada al toma corriente, escrib al vendedor y resulta que dice que se venci el tiempo estimado, para mi es un estafador que sabia lo que hizo desde el principio, un estafador, no lo recomiendo, por personas as es que las personas dejan de comprar por Internet, el hecho de que no me enviara la factura solo lo vuelve mas sospechoso.
Call HP for help fixing the problem and i was forced to talk to india idiots that cannot deviate from their scripted answers or they are lost.
And that tangerine orange is just so chic for a chick:) Too bad my wife will see little of this 21st century marvel in the next few months.
Though the original price of something like $450; to begin with, that is a steal for a 17" monitor - reason #2 of purchase.
Did not need this laptop for any other reasons other than MS Office (not included), music, social media and Netflix.
The speakers are clear and loud enough to fill a hallway but they lack depth (bass output is weak).
Plus the ability to run Linux (via Crouton) simultaneously alongside the Chrome operating system transforms this little laptop into a powerful workstation for programming, digital content creation, legacy software emulation, gaming, and more.
His older sister liked his so much she asked me to get one for her and she loves it.
She despartly need a laptop for her school work.
We were going to give it to him in May when he actually graduates, but the computer was shipped in the computer box with just a vacuumed plastic "bag" around it - no cushioning, not exterior box.
I could hear rattling in the box, grew nervous, and had to give him the computer (It only had a 14 day return policy) early so he could check it out and make sure it worked correctly.
It works just fine for what she needs it for in high school and it is quite a hit with her friends because of the portability and it being a tablet and a laptop.
My S55 came with a defective keyboard; for many keys if when you pressed once you get multiple (2-3) repeated characters.
(Microsoft)
Two days to Kansas City,MO........ (This is the first month that I used it every day while many people give their opinion after unpacking the box)  JM
Uninstall Origin, WildTangent Games, Toshiba Book Place, Toshiba App Place, Norton Internet Security (replaced with Microsoft Security Essentials), Norton Online Backup, and Norton Anti Theft.
Finally, a call to Toshiba tech support resulted in identification of the problem.
Who on earth sells a computer without Microsoft Office ?
Small power brick (fits in the palm of my hand)2.
LAN port is external (supplied)3.
When you fire an installed application (like notepad) the response is not as good as the tablet-apps.
Mike - Boise
( I have used all different browsers).
She is disabled and this helps her to keep in contact with her friends and the world.
I`m an old fart, and I`m kinda old school.
If this will just be a travel (airplane) companion to your desk top computer.
On this model the Leap Motion is an external plug-in module, (via the USB cords provided).
I tried updating the Bluetooth driver(s) and the mouse completely stopped working requiring what I believe was a driver rollback and pairing the mouse again.
On a positive note the HP SimplePass (finger swipe login) works well and as this is a Windows 8.1 machine logging in each and every time seems to be the <new> Windows way of life.
This is unacceptable as they published a technical bulletin about the manufactures defect and fail to stand behind their product.
HP Envy 6-1110us 15.6-Inch Sleekbook (Black)
Seven hours later, after 11 further attempts and having accessed literally hundreds of websites researching the problem (HP support is non-existent - and one of the websites referencing the error generated by the upgrade showing that it had been accessed over 10,000 times!).
However, the very next day (yesterday) the same problem occurred and again Dell is sending a new hard drive and will send a Tech to install it.
Suggest you use the regular Win 7 backup to make a system image and recovery media rather than the Lenovo program - at some point in the Lenovo it said it was going to reformat my external hard drive which meant losing all the other data on it (this has been reported by others).
:) .
to/1edrzQFtook 2 stars out because the more powerfull brother (4th gen core i3 and 6gb of ram) is only 60 usd more.
Arrived in a timely manner, but with limited "documentation" (eg, manual).
Actually a IT fellow employee picked this one out keeping in mind what i told him I wanted to do with it.
Speeds is more than adequate for normal office use (MS Office) and for surfing the net.
( I did this 3 times already, trying to learn how to share via Home-Group since I needed to copy all the stuff from old notebook).
This is to replace another Vaio Computer (3 yrs old)
:)everything is working as it should.
Both of these programs should run perfectly smoothly on a machine with these specs (especially because of the dual video cards).
The only turn off is that the double GPU heats the piece A LOT, at some points when gaming, you cant touch the sides (this is specially to the fathers who have little children who like to touch everything).
(I had a Toshiba which was damaged due to the extreme hot on its GPU)
In my gaming group consisting of MSI Stealths, and Alienwares, I show up with my lowly Y510p and able to keep up with the big boys (previous rig was an Alienware M15x).
Bought as a gift for my son who needs one for his work in the movie industry.
Somebody at the dispatch warehouse though needs his or her brains tested.
spoke to them over an hour about a know problem with their photo importer program .
McAfee is built in with a 30 day trial and what happens at the end of that trial?
Having to pay to ship the computer for repairs that are under warranty was also made me very unhappy (they are only paying to return it to me).
He was very happy with his gift.
Bought a gift for my 82 year old mom, I installed remote control software so that I could show her (we live many hours away) how to use it.
In the one month she owned it there were at least ten days she couldnt use it, and I spent at least 15 hours playing tech support and trying to fix it (I am an engineer, pretty much a technology geek).
Amazon (as usual) was great helping return the machine.
( just google "Dell XPS 14 wifi issues" to see it yourself)It appears to be a hardware design issue, and to make it even worse, Dell knows about it, yet they did not do anything about it.
The product did not come with a 32GB Solid State drive for OS and Programs (as advertised).
Trying to get technical support involves trying to communicate with someone who hardly speaks English.
Amazon shipped the replacement (overnight shipping - thanks Amazon).
(We got 5 of these at once so this is not a hardware issue, it is a product issue).
It is painfully slow, frequently shuts down programs (especially internet explorer) for no reason, and it is unnecessarily confusing and convoluted in the way it is set up.
I ended up having to take my laptop to Best Buys Geek Squad which charged me another 300(should of just quit at it at this point, stupid me) for their 2 year protection plan.
There are a few programs you need to find, the pop up screen for setting that will pop out the right side, it will take you to control setting & system security, you will also need to find back up, to do a windows repair disk on a cd or dvd , ( the repair disk is what you need if it crashes)  I did an image disk on the spare drive D: 42 gigs of info.
You can plan to spend most of your first day, down loading, up grading, And learning to save icons or pin to tray, so that you do not play hide and seek for the computers lifetime.
The computer works great for surfing the web and for scholar purposes (to search for an article, to use word and powerpoint, etc) Thanks a lot, guy.
:)
The children here are not as privileged as kids in the United States and the local village of Inarajan has just remodeled their village community center.
(: Love it.
I bought it to may dad 6 months ago from a local store (microcenter) at a deal price of $299+tax (as of july 2014 that price is still valid).
(I have never seen any during the few days I used it at his home.)
Moreover it is pretty lightweight (almost a pound less than his old HP).
Dell Inspiron 14.1 - Inch Touch screen Ultra book (i14 RMT - 7501 s LV)Is amazing ... and very economical
we have an older (7 yr old )dell that works better and is faster  than this one??
:-(
The only real drawbacks are the touchpad (kinda cheezy) and the inability to print to a standard non-cloud printer with out a second machine acting as a "server".
I am a college student so I need it to work with word documents, go on the internet, and (not necessary but wanted) to boot up fast and it does just that and more.
This is the device for someone who mainly accesses the internet (cloud) for their computing needs.
Also, in 2014, any serious business traveler now owns a mobile WIFI (MIFI) device, or is proficient at using their cellular phone as a mobile hotspot.
Open the lid; everything in back in the blink of an eye.
There is also a program called Neutron Drive that allows file editing (with syntax highlighting and other IDE features) as well as FTP transfers and more through a remote connection.
I was hoping to use this when I travel and if I were to damage or lose this (as has happened several times) I would not feel bad.
PRO:play most games in ultra setting over 60fpsLooks goodCON:Needs a cooling pad (like most gaming laptops)Windows 8
Best gift he received (with the exception of money)!
Definitely going with him to college in the fall.
He is a college student and it does the job.
Time will tell if it provides her with the support she needs for college life.
(I love it when a plan comes together!)
Total wast of money - and left it too late to return!
the seller is scam... they take your money and never send the item to your house saying that it is the responsibility of the shipping company to deliver it to you.
Fast & (so far) reliable.
Unfortunately, the new computer also began having issues; however, with the Sony stores closing and the reduced tech support hours (12-hours down to 7-hours) getting reliable service has been a challenge so say the least.
For now however it is almost an amusing toy, god to play with.
I purchase one with additional 500 GB HD to put some movies and music for long trips over the ocean(s).
As a tablet along (detached k-board) it is very fine and useful.
Several family members, after seeing mine in action, have now bought, or are planning to buy a T100TA for themselves.
I would (and do) highly recommend this "Little Guy".
Not a "gaming" machine, but quite able to play old games.
Of course this opens my entire system for EXPLOITATION by ASUS (e-mail, personal items, etc.)
The computer does too many updates and randomly kicks you out of what you are doing, to run and update and restart (sometimes freezing in the process).
Once trial version end the purchaser must buy the final product.
Now if I can just master Windows 8.1.  ;-)
Would (will) buy similar offering from ASUS when the time comes in a few years.
We use this laptop every day and encounter different situations that might help others when it comes to work and average use (anything other than gaming) we are pleased so far with the results.
Rome II: Total War looks and plays smoothly.
This all started at Best, eventually led to Ama, and finished at New.
Starting with the Asus G750JX from last year (current year when purchased).
Thinking maybe best - buy models were all of same shipment, maybe something wrong with that production line.
Just I ran to New, it was 2:30pm, and tried to order before 3pm thinking (like with ama) that it ships out that day if ordered before 3.
It has the same 2x 2.5 bays (unless you get the one with a 128 or higher ssd, then you get one 2.5 bay and a super raid daughter board with 3x msata slots).
considering returning it for refund:(
Pros:- Raw power.
Shortly after the warranty period something is likely to break and be totally unavailable in North America, special order or not.
Then you can buy a used part on Ebay from another country as the only remedy (or throw the computer away.
I asked  one of my friends who was playing world of Warcraft with me and using a HP laptop, and he told me that his laptop never gone crashed, and he bought that one about one year ago.
), but to get these things you have to probably shell out another $1k (e. g. razer).
Sorry for a Lengthy review, I just wanted to share everything with everyone out there who wants to buy this PerfoMonster (Performance Monster :) ).
And, anyone who is buying this laptop and not considering upgrading with SSD will stay a loser (sorry for harsh wording).
Ive played Battlefield 4, Max Payne 3, Batman Arkham Origins, Bioshock Infinite, Crysis 3 and Assassins Creed Black Flag on this beast.
Now the benchmarks (Ultra = Highest possible graphics settings):Game = Battlefield 4, Graphics Settings = Ultra, Resolution = 1080P , Average FPS = 35, Comment: Gameplay was really smooth except during high explosion and smoke FPS drops to 25Game = Bioshock Infiniti, Graphics Settings = Ultra, Resolution = 1080P, Average FPS = 60, Comment: Real smooth gameplay throughoutGame = Batman Arkham Origins, Graphics Settings = Ultra, Resolution = 1080P, Average FPS = 40, Comment: Sudden drop of FPS to below 10, its because of game problem not the graphics card or somethingGame = Assassins Creed Black Flag, Graphics Settings = Ultra, Resolution = 1080P, Average FPS = 23, Comment: Even though FPS was low but real smooth gameplay.
Other usage include connecting two other monitors (one 1080P, one 1600 X 900) through matrix technology, playing 1080P streaming video on one (Netflix and Youtube), downloading 25GB of Assassins Creed using UPlay and running other browsing and Visual Studio application on the third monitor.
About heat, Ive never felt any heat under my hands while playing games, but sometimes I put my mobile on the left side (this is where heating fins are) and mobile do get mildly hot after sometime.
It is called UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface).
After cloning I change the boot order (explained below) to boot from SSD and saw two Windows 8.1 options to boot from.
So, after cloning boot from HDD, create a backup of all certificates.
I have been playing hitman abs, resident evil 5, witcher 2, need for speed hot pursuit and other games that came out a year or two ago  and all of them are on high-ultra with 30 fps at least.
Easly handels running 3 eve clients plus shadow runs returns (both at highest setting) along with the mumble and jabber all at same time.2.
The restore uility works very well (reason see Con #2)Cons:1. heat:  you do not want to have this directly on your lap.
It will roast any thing put to the left of the laptop (so far it cooked a hot dog, will try popcorn this next weekend).2.
Norton is preinstalled (failed to see common malware speed dial) also yellowed flag the .
It is enough for him  to work:)
UPDATE 5/26/2014: After many and many BSOD (Blue Screen of Death) issues (CRITICAL_PROCESS_DIED message, which is usually the SSD or the RAM); I am having to return the laptop.
Razer Blade Pro 17 Inch Gaming Laptop 512GB - Windows 8.1 - Nvidia GeForce GTX 765Mby RazerBe the first to review this itemList Price: $2,799.99Price: $2,705.51You Save: $94.48 (3%)http://www.
(7 lbs)
I am a devoted Samsung customer (TVs, appliances, smart phone, tablet), and this is a huge disappointment.
I have owned SEVERAL Chromebooks since inception of the OS, (I have mentioned them below for a comparison).
(this chromebook comes with one usb 3.0 port)
Is pretty fast and plays most games (even battlefield 4 on medium settings).
;-)
:(
So far this alienware has been able to take anything (video game) I have thrown at it.
very seldom give out 5-stars (saved for that product that goes far beyond).
I own an ultrabook (HP ENVY 13-2150nr Spectre XT 13.3") and I like it for a number of specific tasks.
The Inspiron comes with a 2 GHz Intel Core i7 processor and 8 GB of ram (upgradeable to 16GB).
It will (and does) work just fine.
As far as connecting to the outside world the Inspiron comes with all the standard I/Os along with an HDMI jack that actually works correctly (not all computers can say this).
The Inspiron comes with Windows 8.1 (64 bit) installed.
Because of the beige tint to everything (which is restful on the eyes), the blue Google theme looked muddy.
Also, this is an 8GB (2x4GB) system.
Chromebooks are heavily reliant on the cloud, which is a vast array of interconnected servers, accessible via the internet, which houses the computing resources of both individual computer users, and large entities, such as corporations, school systems, and government agencies.
In addition, the sandboxing technology that is integral to the Chrome operating system, maintains separation between the actual operating system and the applications, protecting against virus and malware cross-infection.
However, the majority of the computing public use their computers for more routine activities such as E-mail, internet search, social networking, typing school and/or work documents, preparing slides for presentations, and organizing and analyzing data on a spreadsheet.
Also, in mid-2014, most business travelers now have cellular phones that can function as mobile hotspots, or own mobile WiFi (MiFi) devices, or purchase in-flight internet access from their airline in advance of their flight.
It is thin, with a width of 0.8 inches (20mm), and it only weighs 2.5 pounds (1.15kg).
Arrived in a heavily damaged and partly open carton with no packing materials (frightening!)..
When I said I then wanted a replacement instead of a repair (figuring maybe I had a lemon), I entered a maze of smoke and mirrors being transferred to about a dozen people in 2 different countries, multiple times being told, sorry, this was the wrong department.
com/gp/product/B00FNPD1VW/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp;=1789&creative;=9325&creativeASIN;=B00FNPD1VW&linkCode;=as2&tag;=newcams-20
It comes with an Intel Celeron N2830 CPU, 4GB of RAM (expandable to 8GB), a 500 GB hard drive, 802.11bgn Wi-Fi support and a built-in webcam.
