When the hard drive totally crashed (only 3 months old) I spent almost two hours trying to get help from technical support.
Two weeks for a person that works on the road is untenable.
The second Hard Drive lasted three months.
The service representative and supervisor are from India or Pakistan and their English is very difficult to understand.
They have to have me read and reread and reread again the basic information to them (serial number, etc.).
Finally they sent me the box to return the machine and assured me that I would get top priority (as I was to return to S.
A.).
Two weeks passed and when I called (five days before leaving for S.
A.)
When the product got here (took close to 1 month)  it did not boot up to start.
Dear Sir,Kindly note that I faced two problems when I used this notebook:1- Some Keys of the Key Board are hanging.2- The Battery working fine and suddenly dead.
256mb RAM, 16mb Video (can change to 32mb using system memory), a combo DVD-CDRW drive, and some popular software titles running on Windows XP Home version.
THe keys falling apart.
The cd drive door broke.
I went through three lapetops in a month in a half it being the most scarest purchase in my life they were falling apart walking out the door on my fourth try I chose the GRX550 by SONY IT will not be beat!
I was traveling on a business trip and it automatically found a hub in another office building so I started surfing the net on their connection.
This is the notebook for people who love sony products.
I claim for repair under warranty to Sony and I had to ship the computer to San Diego,California paying all shipment expenses.
They knew what the problem with the LCD was before they received and now they do not want to repair it under the warranty.
(Get the realtek driver and XFree86 drivers and away you go.)
Snappy little box; envy of all my working friends (except those who upgraded to the FVR-28).
It has survived a virus almost causing it to crash (new virus software and restoring the operating system has prevented this from happening again) and it has maintained its speed.
(DVD region 1,2,3,4,4,5,6)The 1955-s803 will lock the DVD-rom in one single area, once you try to alter the regions a couple of times.
)For those presentations on the road try to carry a region-free DVD player along.
On paper they look very similar: 2.4 GHz Pentium 4, 512MB RAM, 40GB hard drive, 15 screen, ATI Radeon graphics chipset (AKA M6-P).
Both are a little power hungry and dont have the best battery life (2-3 hours of good use).
However these are very powerful mobile desktops that work great for those who have their notebooks plugged in most places they go.
Also the backlit of the monitor may fail after some years of use (the flexible cable ruptures).
Hope to hear from you soon.
About after a year using this, it started to continously shut down spontaneously (usually when running many processes at the same time or a process that takes more CPU).
Ctrl key at an awkward location (not the leftmost in the bottom row)4.
Great Notebook for the money.
Also after less then a year the hard drive breaks, not to mention it gets very hot very quickly.
Sony says they will look at it but I need to pay shipping to send it to them and a 50.00 fee just for them to analize the problem, thats not including repairs.
The first one from 2002 stillw works, they other two died.
Ps, Sony has no word for "service"
Since last 6 months, laptop was getting overheated and crashed so many times.
I am now trying to locate replacement drives as the original drives were inadvertently removed and reformatted.
I have had this on three trips now and it is hands down the best laptop for mobile professionals who require a workstation for complex software.
Unfortunately, when I try to burn a CD for the first time with the preinstall software, the CD writer broke.
Now, it is too late to return to the store.
I love this machine, You should know that the TV receiver can only be used without the battery, (the module goes in that bay) so you MUST be plugged to an outlet.
Also needs an external antennae conection (includes conector) The Remote Control for the media center is quite nice BUT you need to attach an IR receiver (also included) to one of your USB ports so this is not that practical after all... Great buy, but I just wanted you to know what I did not when I ordered... :)Awesome screen, very useful.
And the battery Life is bad, about 45 min max.
The vents are on the bottom.
The heat builds up and will fry the graphics card, and you can end up with a computer to which you must add an external monitor to use.
HP, apparently under pressure, offered users a repair for free.
HP was exceptionally generous in this, as they agreed to fix my laptop even though I purchased it second hand and it was more than a year out of warranty; however, that was about three years ago (it is now March 2010).
However, these days you can get a solid dual core 15.4" widescreen with numeric keypad for around $499 on sale at Staples or OfficeMax, so consider buying new before buying a used ZD7010us.
For about 4 months when the laptop was in partial-working condition, it was shutting down every 45 seconds.
The new HD crashed promptly after my warranty expired.
The product has all the functions that a beginning notebook owner would need.
the price is very fair(...).
That does not help when you are trying to fill an order.
Cons:- The battery charge does last very long.- The video card has only 32 MB of built in RAM on the motherboard.
(Slow startup)- Cannot upgrade video card to include more memory.
not working condtion,only can be used for parts as the letter stated inside the box.
Also, calibrate the screen and battery following purchase and perform routine maintenance activities on the system to remain trouble-free.
Love the small form factor.2.
The fonts are WAY WAY too small for a 30+ years old man.
The connections are fine, including two USB 2.0s, and the built in 802.11 wireless is foolproof.
hard to imagine that an $1,700 would be shipped with a BENT laptop base.
!Laptop #3 (I love the punishment) will be picked up tonight.
They sent me a box to send the laptop to the depot after 10 days... and guess where your laptop gets fixed?
The back pin of the power plug tends to get a hairline fracture that forces consumers to "wiggle" the power cord on the back of the laptop.
In most cases, all power connectivity is lost, and the laptop will have to be sent in for repairs.
This usually occurs after 1 - 2 years of ownership of the device.
Out of warranty repair costs: $300.00+
I took a big chance being from Argentina as I had the Toshiba sent by air freight.
The major problem 1 is Fans installed at bottom of the laptop which makes system power off when u place on bed or any cushion surface.
This thing broke after a year of use.
So I bought a new Toshiba Core2Duo laptop and 3rd day, the hard drive broke, returned it.
On the other hand, the rarely used function (Fn) key is oversized and between the Control and Alt key.
I bought it in Jan 2004, since than I have upgraded it from the 60GB IDE harddisk to a 120GB; the Intel PRO/Wireless LAN 2100 3B Mini PCI (802.11b) now is a Intel PRO/Wireless 2200BG 802.11b/g Mini PCI; the removable DVD/CD-RW combo SD-R2412 (had some bugs reading DVD-+Rs) now is a Removable DVDRW drive model: SD-R6372 (I updated firmware region-free); the 256MB is now 1GB.
The built in SD Card Reader seems to be faulty (may be a driver bug).
I continue to use the same original battery (2004-2008), four year now!
Max out the memory and get Apple Care.
The Apple computer company shipped my computer quickly and was securely packaged for shipping.
this is in great shape for a very old mac my daughter bought it and she is very very happy with it
She opened the gift on Christmas day, the Computer work for 1 week only and died.
an oldie but goodie, now a recycle item, I have actually worn the letters off the keys and used it so much I have taken it to the computer shop to get old lost programs put on, they usually do it for free since these machines are obsolete now.
Amazon must ported other laptop data right into this one.
The owners were exceptionally professional and refundedmy money promptly.
I love Mac and have my own Macbook so when it came to buying a laptop for my 10 year old daughter, I went to used Macs.
However, by the second day, yesterday, the hard drive was making noises after repeated hangs or freezes.
Was going to purchase a brand new Mac Book Air; totally reconsidered and thought to myself "An oldy is still a goody" lol.
:)
However, when the item did arrived, my fiance took a good look at it and tried to go on the web.
AFter that, he tried youtube and youtube cannot even load.
He tried transferring all his items from his old laptop to this one (the ibook), however it would not read.
So he did some research and turns out that this ibook ran at a 133 MHz.
what a mistake, Now Trust is out the window.
I AM UPSET HE LIED AND THE LAPTOP IS WORST THAN HE EXPLAINED I AM SO MAD NOW I HAVE TO PAY MONEY TO SEND IT BACK AND THE INTERNET WONT LOAD DO NOT TRUST THIS MAN
Ordered another from Dell just now for $250.
=)
I bought this New T41 2 months ago, Product is awesome, but after 6 weeks of use, the hard disk crashed, and when i called up IBM, they said that they would replace the hard disk with a new one, and the data from the old one cannot be restored.
They upgraded it with a new 160 GB hard drive, and 2 GB of memory for the same price.
I purchased a notebook for a friend for a gift.
They are very professional, and personable.
and i got no paperwork(company# or info on laptop) from company on anything with it.
The new ibook would cost you 999 $(from apple), with the mail in rebates and a9 discount this would cost you about 825$.
Three bars (out of a possible 5) in connection strength.
I am speaking from experience, owning one of the iBooks from a couple years ago (700 MHz G3).
They should do a recal and give people their money back.
It is light years old and rapidly becoming obsolete.
Whoever is trying to sell this is delusional.
I SENT SEVERAL EMAILS TO ATTEMPT TO RECTIFY THE SITUATION AND WAS IGNORED ON THE KEY ITEM:received:Toshiba PORTEGE M200 PM-1.5G 1G 60GB (PPM20U-07UGR4)ordered:Toshiba PORTEGE M200 PM-1.7G 512MB 60GB (PPM21U-07UEV8)THE OTHER EQUIPMENT THAT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE INCLUDED WAS RECEIVED ONLY AFTER 2 OTHER EMAIL COMPLAINTS.
After receiving the computer and using for two weeks it stopped working.
In one months time I spent $500.00 and now have nothing to show for it.
The laptop was packaged safe for shipping and arrived quickly.
Unit was corrupted with nonresolvable issues.
Edgar
As soneone that has been using a G41 for about six years now with no issues whatsoever.
Be sure to buy a three year service contract.
The cd drive was not functioning and I sent to their repair facility and after 2 weeks it came back... with the same problem.
By the way, you are responsible for shippping them the computer and they return via ground!!
!Considering reputable companies now have more affordable laptops (ex.
Happy shopping ;-)
During the time it is not travelling it is in the tv room.
3 hrs)DVD burnerSD/MMC card readerExternal monitor supportCons:No floppy driveNo manual or support documentationNo original discs for installed software (for backup)No IEEE 1394 ports (FireWire)
Lacks a microphone (has a jack) and FireWire.
I just wish I knew that prior to spending $3k on a new apple computer hahah!
Live and learn :)
I spent $20 shipping it back for a replacement, and a month later got a replacement.
After your warranty expires, the laptop will fall apart.
the rest is on an invisibleand unremovable hard drive partition,where the recovery software resides.
My 6 month old machine was shipped with the wrong operating system (Averatec blamed Amazon), the keyboard was defective, and when I called for warranty service, I was treated like a felon by Averatec "customer service".
The repair, which should have been free, is going to cost $250.
Out of the box on day one.
Dead CPU fan on day three.
Back to the store on day four.
They take 2 weeks time to repair/replace anything.
This is during the warranty period(1 yr).
Thereafter,if anything goes wrong you have to ship it back to them,as they dont sell any of their parts outside.
Now, this time they took 4 weeks time to repair.
They are very helpful and sell quality computers.
The computer was received in new condition.
Getting ready to upgrade to Windows 7!
The condition was good and the order arrived on time... the notebook had  plenty of storage.
(Although it works on 7.)
This device was a let down due to the problems in upgrading the hard drive.
Very fast for an older computer.
It is now 4 years later.
After surviving more than a dozen falls  the Thinkpad keeps on Chugging along.
I bought this item from Curcuit City on 4th July Holiday weekendIt was an open box item that I paid $450 for after rebates + free printer+ free wireless mouse + 18 months Interest free credit.
The older Gateway models are AWESOME.
60 gig harddrive 2 gigs of ram,try getting that from a tablet.
for around $170.00.
It had issues from the beginning, including needing to use a paperclip to open the cd tray after installing software.
In addition, the system ran slower after each software installation, even though none were running in the background.
Also, the disc, battery and blue tooth lights are located at the bottom of the keyboard, right where your left hand is placed.
After having all of the trouble, the vendor tried to assess a restocking fee of 15%, which of course I refused to pay.
AN ATTEMPT TO HAVE THE HARD DRIVE REPLACED UNDER WARRANTY, MET WITH ON HOLD AND CUT OFF.
THIS UNIT WAS FOR A MENTALLY CHALLENGED LADY WHO NOW DOES NOT HAVE THE AVAILABILITY OF A COMPUTER.
Of course this completely died after return period and warranty ended so I just lost money.
Friend was installing memory for prior owner when he had a fire at his house.
He picked it up and we watched water pour out, like coffee out of a cup, he sent it off with a restoration company who had all of his belongings for the better part of a year.
Apple has issued a repair extension program to help owners deal with this.
All-in-all, the 15" Powerbook has become the best value in the line-up.
Features added to 15" Powerbook over the 12" Powerbook include; backlit keyboard, Firewire 800, 10/100/1000 Ethernet, 1.67 Processor, 128MB VRAM (vs 64MB VRAM in the 12") S-Video out, optical audio in/out, dual layer SuperDrive and a PCMIA Card Slot (Type I & II).
Break it down & each added feature cost about $45 each.
I eagerly awaited the arrival of the PowerBook G4 and plugged it in to charge the battery while using the Software Update feature to obtain the latest versions of the applications and security updates.
I was ready to contact Apple but decided to run Software update again and after I installed the operating system update another update showed up titled: "Aluminum PowerBook (15-inch) Battery Firmware Update".
Hope this helps others solve this problem without having to send their battery back.
went to Apple Store which was a complete waste of time.
Apparently, apple care means different things based on point of purchase.
All but the HP ipod was attached to a store computer for troubleshooting.
The airport card reception/transmission is blocked by the Aluminium case of the PowerBook.
If you purchase a 2nd hand Alienware, you CANNOT go to the Alienware web site and update your drivers.
I got this computer within 4 days of ordering and upon arrival with a full charge it was ready to go just as if i had bought it new.
I called the company telling them it was bad, and they agreed to have the computer shipped back to them to fix.
I had to go out and buy a brand new macbook pro from the store to finish the project i was working on.
Nice to have LION pre-Installed, also the Keyboard comes updated with launchpad and mission control FN Keys.
It arrived quickly from amazon, and I opened her up.
Ugh, when will they get rid of it?
Cannot wait to upgrade the RAM soon to 16GB.
Made for each other to Techies and Artists
Computer did not survive one day with my 12 year old daughter without needing $700 in repairs.
Key board is wide open to liquids, dust, contaminates which could quickly destroy it.
After listening to my daughter and others rave about theirs, I finally decided to get one.
The laptop shipped quickly and was in perfect shape when it arrived.
the 14.1 inch wide screen,fingerprint recognition,IBM,s Active protection system,ThinkVantage Technology and a  lot of secure features are available with this.
pros:14.1-inch Wide screen-untill now Thinkpadz are pretty Boxy  & now they look cool with the new WideScreen look(Thanks for LENOVO for making this move).
Inbuilt WI-FI wireless card which can access internet from anywhere in USA.
(but we need to get a contract with carriers like VERIZON who provides Wireless national broadband intenet.
Excellent finger-Print recognition software-Trust me the finger print software is simply amazing,other than that we can also store a lot of secure information at our finger tips with this software(IBM is the only one that started giving this on laptops,neverthless of the fact all the other companies like DELL,SONY are working out to include this feauture in their products).
Active Protection system- this is a feature only available with IBM thinkpadz, your HD is enabled with a active shock protection system which protects your HD on shocks/shakes.
ThinkVantage-all softwares Rescue & recovery,Pc-Doctor at this point,Check this one at IBM.
did return finally 10/12................
I Had To Constantly Remove The Battery Due To The Laptop Freezing Up Each Day.
Motherboard was replaced by HP out of warranty for $375.
Everything was ok (though like the prvious review, the laptop runs very hot) till the laptop was a year old.
As soon as the warranty was over the laptop starting having issues.
Then it srted refusing to boot up on occasion.
After almost 15 years of buying HP products.
(to pc of course)
Paying to have it shipped back to them ($50) in hopes they can fix the problem.
I got mine thru the apple website under the refurbs for 1238 saving about 167 dollars versus new.
Also was able to purchase apple care for additional 2 yrs.
I called the apple store but I will have to leave both laptops for days in order for them to do it and I can not afford being away from my laptop due to work.
I am getting a feeling that soon Mac will turn in to the new McDonalds, it;s getting too popular and the Apple people are getting too cocky these days.... and without Steve Jobs....
Muchas gracias, he recibido a satisfaccin el producto en impecable estado como siempre.
When my co-employee ask an advice about this product,i told him to get one of this computer and he does.
I have the macbook pro 13.3 i7 for 36 hours and is continuously working (downloading, transferring files, testing applications etc) all this time.
Old reviewApple has dropped support for Nvidia.
Support was awful (try being on hold up to an hour).
Their answer?
Send it back for repair.
I spent over well over $200 (on top of the purchase price, not to mention the aggrivation of backing up, restoring and reloading) for WHAT?
while all computers are defective as they are subject to viruses, hacking and assorted crashes as well as more dysfunction the more you use them, I can truly say that what sets dell apart is that their website and customer service is horrible... prepare to go through major hassles as yuou use their website to get info and using their chat, email and phone service.. the company should be investigated for consumer fraud(except that the government is already on the take from big business).... good luck
The problems began as soon as the warantee expired.
The disk drive died at four months.
Now the power supply is dead.
Tech services is a case study in how not to deal with customers.
Lucky for them that they are in India.
I took a magic marker and wrote "Never, ever do business with Dell again" on the side of the computer in large letters.
I would have posted 5 stars if backup/recovery disc(s)would have been part of the package.
They also said the windows xp was swipped out of the laptop.
Within a days use thebattery life lasts for about an hour.
Really great value for the money, fast shipping and good packaging, and zero hassle.
The operating system was ubuntu not windows xp as advertised.
These guys at Data Sales do a beautiful refurbishing job, looks new and their follow up on sales is exceptional my T60 is a dream machine.
Two of those times the technicians stated "no problem found."
Shortly after the warranty expired, the computer completely crashed.
Computer meets all of the things we need in one,recomend one
Well in a way they are telling the truth but in another they are lying.
A reasonable compact laptop, with a limited memory and storage, just right for a schoolkid like my nephew to take his work to and from school.
Itwas shipped promptly to him.
Peace!UPDATE 9/3/2012Display died.
Just got this a couple months ago.
Contacted the seller and was told tough luck.
But she is enjoying learning to use her computer.
The Dell physical specs include a screen with a large LCD screen, two mouse options (eraser button mouse-stick and trackpad), the front LCD clasp is held with one button (a bit stiff on several tested, should help to keep closed however).
The front bays are dual purpose media (right) or battery (right and left).
The Intel Pentium 4-M processor can use SpeedStep and other power saving techniques.
This Latitude was made for business class use and thus sports a docking station connector which is a great investment if only to relieve the stress of repeated AC adapter plug-ins at home.
Then discovered the cd burner was bad.
I plan on buying my grandson  a used computer from this company for Christmas!
"Thanks T. L"
it was a gift for my niece... she did not get it until her birthday in March... it would not boot up the 4th time she went to start it.
My cousin was in bad need for a computer to take her online courses, so I helped her out.
She loves this!
1 month after the return period ended this computer died.
Might upgrade the Hard Drive later.
The computer has been great and the seller was great to work with.
I bot this at Office max, in santa rosa n california.
update all your software , Great laptop HP & Compact is great companychris santa rosa Norther california,bot Office max
Will buy from them again.
It charges quickly and lasts about 2 to 2.5 hours with regular computer use.
It arrived with the wrong charger but the seller shipped the right one as soon as I emailed them.
Calvin
They authorized the return and even before I could put it in a box to ship it back with their prepaid label, a replacement arrived at the door.
This shows their quality and traits, which is rare to find in business today.
All I got was courtesy and civility from their staff when I called them.
Our daughter had started online courses and her computer was toooo slow so receiving the dell lap top in 3 days was amazing!
I now use it to connect to the internet at home and work on many church projects.
Bought for my 7 year old daughter to learn to type and play her CD-ROM games and she loves it -- and I do not have to worry about her going onto the internet and finding inappropriate websites.
I contacted the seller (Kool Krowd) and they offered me a refund of $80 total on a purchase that was over $300!
She loves her macbook, calls him Pizza and takes him everywhere.
Customer services was fantastic and they were super helpful.
No reply (after some days now).
The battery would not hold a charge and the actual computer would not run on the power cord.
Contacting them was horrible they never responded.
Amazon finally returned my money after 2 months.
Needed comp for school and didnt want to or have a bunch of money to spend.
The computer  bought  ... came defective.
Took it to a PC DR and he said it was installed with a faulty CRAPPY windows CD and the reboot was completely taken out when refurbished.
When I received the Dell laptop I discovered the software it has was ending and obsolete within a few days.
this computer is good for a nine year old to do his homework.
- Jacob-
Daughter kept asking for a laptop, when I was kid I didnt have one.. lol..
i had to pay $150.00 to have all the viruses removed  also the windows xp was illegal.
Got this computer fast, started playing on the web and got a virus so be sure to get protection first thing.
They are great with customer satisfaction and they are great with communication.
It was just more cost effective for me (time and money) to simply order one from a local company.
Must have been popular.
Works, but you have to "push" connections together to get the blue light.
The laptop arrived quickly and was packed well.
oo computer from this company on Dec 2, they took my money from my account.
They have also changed their company name from 5 Stars llc.
They do not believe in full refunds for a product they were responsible for ensuring customer satisfaction.
Everybody happy with their new laptop.
Some keyboard letters were falling off.
When the battery died and the charger went out I decided to do a little upgrading.
I went online and got the manuals from Dell and then began inspecting the computer.
I suspect the heat sink to be broken so I have ordered a new fan, heat sink, battery, and charger to replace the defective parts.
I have also ordered a memory upgrade and will soon do the same for the CPU and Hard Drive.
This was the perfect computer for my sonit was fast and let him do everything a 15 year old could want to do on a laptop
The delivery was also over a week late.
I received used computer which is very old model and have problem to load internet applications, programs and ads on.
Dell Latitude D620-1.66 Laptop Wireless Computer (Refurbished)I got this computer from Tampa Laptops thru Amazon.
Well dont let the stars fool you after a month the computer quit working and i talked to Tampa Laptops and we had to send it back another $50.
So FYI Do not buy a computer from them and buy the way i did not know about Amazon A-Z where you could file a claim untill now and that is what i found out A-Z out of luck!!!!!
Save your money and buy one from Walmart!!
The delivery was quick and the computer was well packed and protected.
Will order again in future.
This laptop was purchased for a very dear friend of mine.
Who has reported that the machine is working very well for him.
they products is good and very on time with the products when you order.
Bought for my daughter who mainly watched Utube videos Did not use on daily basis and quit working after 5 months.
This was a Christmas present for my daughter and needless to say when she opened it up on Christmas morning the product did not work.
However.. i got stuck paying for the shipping on the return for them to fix!Well my daughter has the laptop back and she still is not happy.
Had to put in  a new battery cause the one shipped only held charge for 20 min.
i am planning to order more Laptops for my friends in Tanzania.
I ordered a Dell Inspiron laptop 1 1/2 years ago and it worked great until recently.
I contacted Dell customer support to activate my next business day warranty and after more than a week I have gotten nowhere with them.
I explained that this is a mission critical system and a 2-3 week delay is unacceptable given the high price I paid for the next day warranty.
They refused to help in any way.
The charging  system stopped working and is now dead.
It must be run out of a storage room.
Dell Latitude D610-1.73 Laptop Wireless Computer (Refurbished)Good luck to all the others who got one there.
Laptop NEVER received and ordered over a month ago.
In 3 days I was using that exact system (not a substitute).
Thomas GloudemansA1 Computer Serices
My computer purchase was a great deal it came very fast and it works great for school work, will definetly shop with buyer again
Mrs. Wendell (Jean)  Larson
However this last purchase is a disaster.
The product arrived on time and as advertised, in good shape.
The laptop was purchased for only one reason to run the DryFire USA Trap program.
Bought a new battery from batteries&butter; for $64.00.
When I received it, it was a "refurbished" computer - BUT IT STILL HAD FAMILY PHOTOS AND PROGRAMS FROM ITS PREVIOUS OWNER ON IT!
:)
About three weeks after my warranty ran out, my wireless stopped working.
After contacting HP support with no success I received an email from them offering free repair since there is a known problem with this model.
Do some googling and you will find forums full of the exact same problem replicated in user after user.
Beautfully appointed black and gray case as compared to the sterile silver notebooks.
During the "Computer Set-Up" Vista crashed & rebooted the machine.
Save your money & aggravation... sell your internal organs or children and buy a Macintosh.
The standard battery time while gaming is only 45 min due to the awesome graphics and processing.
This product arrived super quick, with extra software included.
The seller even included a 1 GB card to upgrade the RAM.
As advertised.
I am an entering freshman and this notebook is ideal for a college student.
), and while the keyboard isnt the best, esp.
Like everyone else, the notebook comes with Vista Business and whole bunch of trial software installed.
Have to remove those trial software.
I have owned a Lenovo 3000 N200 0769 for over two years now and the mobo finally went bad.
product broke within 3 weeks of buying...  man on phonr said send it back cuz it was covered by warranty.
then they offered to fix it for $750.
It was also password secured so some important areas couldnt be reached to change settings (like the date from 1962)which wouldve affected any updates in th futureThe seller refunded most of the cost (sans 24 dollars or so for mailing it), which they requested I dont send it back
They stand behind what they sell.
Only handicap is the limited 3rd party software available, however apple applications do have good reputations.
A great laptop for school and anything els for under $250.00.
DR Bargains Is a great seller.
However, about two months ago I lost trackpad sensitivity.
Since this Black Macbook came out in late 2006 at a staggering price of $1600 I have wanted it and never got around to buying it up until they stopped making it.
Then this year I decided to try and get a refurbished version as I already bought a refurbished Ibook G4 for my mother earlier in January 2012 which works wonderfully for her.
Although the seller I bought this from had 100% positive reviews, I was thinking I might end up being that one person who has a problem with them, especially since the shipping was not as fast as it was described by many(came day before the last day it was estimated to arrive).
I mean, as a designer, who wouldnt love to buy a laptop with the entire CS5.5 Suite AND Final Cut Pro installed in?
The computer arrived quickly and  was just as advertised.
We had an issue with the plug they sent a new one asap
Unit arrived with a battery that was dead on arrival and showed major faults.
The item arrived on time.
I did a lot of researches, asked for opinion from a lot people who are using Dell, HP, Lenovo & SONY.
It takes forever to unistall them.
purchased this to replace my less than 2 yr old hp notebook which stopped working after 15 mo and then again 5 months later.
What are the "cons" ?..
Then, right after my 1 year warranty ended several keys on the keyboard died.
After 1 1/2 year The FZ140E/S battery stopped without any warning thanks to an special internal device controlling the electrical flow.
In the past four weeks Sony has had at least 6 people work on it -- locally and in San Diego.
I was told my only recourse was to WRITE to the Sony Executive Committee - (they have no phone and no email .
..).
10 days later (not the "48 business hours" promised) I got a reply.
Per the Sony warranty, my only option is to repeatedly send it in to the repair center that so far has been unable to detect the problem - much less fix it.
You can then deal with a local shop if you get a DOA computer.
Their repair center is (apparently) incompetent.
Beautiful, fast, and windows media center is perfect.
This doesnt happen with other machines on the same wireless network.
Key problems:  1) crashes or gets "hung up" incessantly, as in several times a day 2) sony does not provide the Vista disc so recoveries are difficult 3) comes preloaded with a bunch of clunky and buggy sony software 4) has known software compatibility issues with vista and finally and most importantly 5) windows vista which would be better served with the name windows vista beta.
They wanted almost $800.00 to repair it.
I know other people who have purchased different models of their Laptops, and they are all having issues or had issues with them!
Sent in for service and it came back with a note "works to spec for specified user mode" - translation the battery lasts 1.5 hours in normal mode.
Also the mouse on the computer is horrible - have a Thinkpad from work and the mouse is 100x better.
BTW if you login into their site they dont have any history of purchases.
It is about 1 year and 1 month since I bought it (from Circuit City), so of course the warranty has expired.
I have attached an external keyboard for now (till I figure out how to open it and see what the problem is), so it is working like a desktop for me.. Other problems are of course the poor battery life, the difficulty in clicking the keyboard mouse keys, the time taken to connect to a wireless network, and of course the heavy weight.
within the first month the entire bottom half of the keyboard stopped working.
took 5 weeks to get it back.
the batter stopped working about 5 months ago after less than average use.
she paid 700 dollars for it.
What happens next you call the customer service and they say they send you the return box.
And then they have 10 business days to repair the useless piece of junk that your $1300 just turned into.
None of that laptops broke in 3 weeks, no even in a couple of years.
My last laptop, also a VAIO burned after a year and 2 months.
We had to send this computer back to HP 4 times.
3 times within the first year (under warranty) and once after warranty.
It overheated and died 18 months after purchase, only a few months after warranty ran out.
Asus offers 1 year of free accidental damage protection for ALL NOTEBOOKS so Free Insurance!DONT BUY FROM BEST BUY< they have a gimped, slower model, with no accessories, and only a 1 year warranty!
Which means this laptop was has been rebuilt out of scrap parts.
because of this, i had to buy a new one for 80 dollars at the apple store.
Everything arrived in time and all together in one box.
I have previously used Dell inspirons and latitudes, actually currently owning a latitude D620 with T7200 (2GHz core 2 duo) and 2GB of memory.
She actually liked the look of this one when arrived.
However getting it was another story - new Lenovo owners are going to destroy an excellent brand, if they continue to treat their customers like they treated me.
I configured and ordered pc on Lenovo site with extended support and warranty to the tune of over $2,000, and they indicated 2 weeks shipping, which was a week too late for me, but I agreed.
However after 2 weeks, they just changed the date on-line without notification to extend the shipping another two weeks.
Love the product - hate the company.
Return is subject to 15% restocking fee.
However, my first purchase from lenovo (X61) ended up with a LCD display with dead pixels.
The perfect gift for a Son in College.
Disappointed with Sony and this product (running Windows Vista ;(((.
The computer crashed twice within a year.
This machine was purchased for my wife to do her work-related activities on.
great pre-shopping info helped a lot to decide (thru sony site).
Spent hours with Dell to try to upgrade to promised 610 upgrade and was given a MAJOR RUNAROUND each time.
The product came with a computer bag.
I ordered a computer and it worked for 2 weeks and crashed.
The item is everything stated on the page and was shipped very quickly and everything was well protected for it.
After having the laptop for only two (2) days, the unit could not be powered up due to unknown reasons.
After contacting the company, the outcome was to return the unit for maintenance.
He was very happy when he receive it.
This wireless "g" is still in the main stream today and wireless N devices also accept it.
The system recognized the update immediately.
The system came with a restore partition but I never trust them and have external disks in case of a virus or anything physical.
The easiest is swapping out the memory.
The laptop comes with a Intel Core-Duo T2450 which was a decent processor at the time but you can actually "upgrade" the chip to a Core 2 Duo T5200 (Socket M) without a bios update and a used chip will only run about $10.
I have decided after all these years using Thinkpads to look elsewhere for my next laptop.
I did an internet search andothers are seeing the same thing.4) besides the bulge, there is a noticable dipon the lid near the flex cable area.
But I regreted to return that product soon after I ran the computer again.
Amazon listing stated "2GB" memory but it arrived with 4GB.
It is very tough & gets the job done.
Wroks great for 120$ , first one was lost by UPS, , but the company (Gracetechnology2) sent another one when they found out, total process took about 5 weeks.
I have recently purchased multiple HP6910p systems from this seller.
I loved his service got back with me to help fix my problem when i bought a computer from him he was very helpful!
The 6910p has been a pain - literally.
in their machines.
What sets them apart is usability and ergonomics - and the HP 6910p fails badly in this area.
It worked after I disabled official nvidia drivers from acer(which are supposed to be enabled for the system to run smoothly).
It all happened 1 month after warranty expired.
now i need an ac adapter cause the tip on the one the computer came with broke off.
had to return item after having for only a coupe of hours.
could not connect to internet, called customer service and was told warranty had expired in 2008  almost 5 years ago.
Exactly 12 months and 2 days later bad things started to occur.
The task bar at the bottom of the desktop would randomly die when the laptop was unplugged.
I had trouble getting the updates from Windows to install and99% of them would not work after 12 months of ownership.
I easily watched them at home and when traveling (the first tear when the battery worked).
The area where you place your left and right hands on the computer cracked in year two.
I received my items on time and when I had a question about my order the seler responded to my E-mail verry fast.
We ordered the wrong model, so we did not except the shipment and cancelled the order before it shipped and were able to order the right one.
We bought one for my business and one for my mom to use for her online school.
Laptop review for used Dell Laptop for Tampa LaptopsThe shipping USPS was very good sent out right away, Packaging was ok.
System was ok at first then Internet explorer started crashing and system was acting funny.
Tech support was good, tried their ideas, did not work, arranged to send laptop back, Please note: You will have to pay shipping to send it back to Tampa Laptops.
found the problem after second use.
itswas cost to muchfor and old computer.
Had a little trouble connecting it to the internet, had to uninstall the firewall then reinstall firewall and it immediately connected and has worked great.
The computer was refurbished and in very good condition, it is not as fast as the new models now, but the price savings was worth it, it is being used by my daughter for school work and some games, I am planing on buying a second one for myself.
Great bargain for a casual computer user.
Within a couple days the I was refunded the money and DRK offered to contribute to the cause and assist with getting me another computer for this student.
His customers service was amazing.
The proprietor, Mr Fawaz, immediately sent a replacement hard drive and advised me how to boot to Open Office, when informed the computer booted to a blue screen.
I had to send mine back only a week after I got it ( my fault )  and they had a new one to me immediately.
Now on a trip witth it, carrying it in my handbag, logged on to the wi-fi at Denver airport on my way home in Houston.
The SD card is then acting as repository for personal files and programs.
Perfect for travel when one wants to check email, use internet for checking flights, restaurants, etc.
There are three USB ports on Eee PC and allow easy connections to printers, external DVD/CD drives, and pen drives.
It could not generate a functional bootable USB disk to restore factory installed software after a botched operational system upgrade.
I concur that this is a great little machine; however, I have been unable to get the Eee to recognize my printer which is connected to a Linkys router via a Buffalo LPV3 print server.
I have also looked at many "help" sites on the WWW, including the ASUS help site and have found nothing that even begins to address this issue.
Now he can actually play games!
It was quite frustrating to learn where the keys are on a small keyboard.
It is a lot of fun to explain to them what it is and then when they ask price to see their face.
This has been a great investment and I plan on using this laptop as a home computer as well.
I use it for checking e-mails while on trips and for locating geocaches and recording finds.
This was a big help in installing windows XP.
Boots quickly, internet is fast, nice for surfing on the couch.
The only drawback is the small touchpad.
(one stays home as backup insurance since the original model is now difficult to find should I ever need one; I travel with one at a time) I purchased both (this second one at Amazon, used)because they travel well in my bicycle pannier, take up little of my limited pannier space, have no hard drive thus are robust.
It fits a specific niche for traveling thousands of miles for several months at a time in a bicycle pannier and performing all the functions of surfing internet, email, attaching photos, Skype and more.
When laptop computers in the area were showing three out of five bars of service, this unit shows 100 percent service.
Asus Eee 4G-Galaxy 7" PC Mobile Internet Device (512 MB RAM, 4 GB Hard Drive, Webcam, Linux Preloaded) Pearl WhiteGood buy, but was disappointed windows was not loaded when product arrived.. small but good to check e mail and has other features organizer, etc
Stay with a windows based system, Linux for those without extensive prior experience is impossible to be comfortable with.
User forums are filled with customer problems & frustrations this is clearly a "Heads up".
One must hit the keys really hard in order to type on this.
!I also purchased 1 Gig of memory to replace the 512 that comes with the machine - I got the Crucial 1 GB DDR2-667 Sodimm.
Want to guess who be buying another Asus product?
I use these computers at work for temporary assignments (road trips) and they perform really great!
For what these machines are they do their job really well.
I have another unit on the way I purchased on Amazon.. HP Compaq Business nc2400 Notebook
This was one year and two months after the warranty was out.
However, the cost to me, minus shipping, would be between $400 and $500 for a new hard drive.
It is now August and I have sent it to Gateway four times for repair.
am get n gateway 4 life.
or until they stop making them ha ha .
love rob.
It was purchased for Windows Vista and LightScribe as advertised.
The other reason for the purchase was for traveling which by having the laptop, that works out fine.
All of a sudden last month the latch to open the laptop broke off.
Now I have to open it with a narrow sharp object until I take time and money to repair it my self.
The main reason for buying a lenovo was the battery life on the computer (6-8hrs), the size and weight.
However, I have had so many problems with the unit (wireless connection getting dropped - requiring a reboot everytime, thinkvantage software not working right, problems with the fingerprint login etc etc).
The service is provided by 800-ibm-serve, based in Atlanta.
Turns out they were bought by some company called Lenovo, well they suck now.
And now the fan or hard drive has started making a griding sound and they say i need to spend hundreds of dollars on a new one.
Perfect for business and personal.
nVidia is being sued as part of a class-action lawsuit for these defective video cards.
Dell has been non-responsive to me and will only offer to send me the exact, refurbed video card (and pay for it!).
Very unhappy because my desktop was out of work just 67 days after my purchase, and the technician said,..... they know very well this desktop wont to long in services, and I end screw up by cheap seller
So I bought this Dell (mines has Vista Media and 160 Gig harddrive).
Das schnellste, teuerste und lauteste Notebook das ich je gekauft habe.
BF3 allerdings nicht mehr in den allerhchsten, aber noch sehr akzeptablen Auflsungen.
Das RAID Array mit 750 GB ist sehr schnell und die Platten sehr leise.
Mit Akku luft es gerade mal eine Stunde, was ich in Anbetracht der enormen Leistung von CPU (Desktop CPU) und GraKa sogar als sehr gut empfinde.
Exactly 12 months and 2 days battery died.
A month after that Adapter stopped charging the battery.
I had to buy a new adapter since it stopped working in 14th month.
Thanks Jack!
Item arrived quickly(1wk) and well packaged from shipper
They said one is coming out and that was 3 months ago.
At a 2 week turn around each time.
4-5 weeks later the motherboard went again.
Returned product for "repairs".
Things seemed normal until the warranty ran out in Dec, called with my issue that arose 3 weeks later, telephone number bot working, got through to sales (aargh!)
HP do not have this special edition on their web shop.
My new MacBook Pro 15" (feb 2011) arrived in perfect condition in a sealed box.
Don Montalvo, TX
RAM hungry programs that I would really never run at the same time (Dreamweaver, Photoshop, Indesign) now happily run along side each other.
Bought this as a late Christmas/off-to-graduate-school present for son, who insisted on waiting until the newest model came out.
He had never had a Mac before, having been raised on Windows computers.
He bought whatever software he needed to actually work in the Windows world as well as the Mac world, as he does some web development and app programming.
The super-long battery life allows him to work through lengthy classes with having to search for power.
In the course of the transaction, the delivery is in time and goods in sound conditon .
What a relief - light, easy to use , quick start up, long battery life.
After 2 months the product went completely down, I lost all data, all applications.
Do not call HP tech support, the techs are not native english speakers, and do not know anything about product repairs.
After following the instructions of the tech, the computer became completely unusable.
Refused to take back the computer.
!vista locks up and restarts about once a week ... compaq customer service are real a- holes to work with!!!
refused to ship me a new one or refurbed exchange.... key board broke the first month ... three keys popped off.... heats up like a microwave on your lap!!!!!
MY BACKSTORYMy sister got this laptop for her freshman year of college back in 2006, well I got it 2 years ago as a handmedown, and I use it for college as well, aside from the hard drive slowly going bad, I have never had ANY issue with this laptop.
Drivers are little hard to come by, but after going to Dell.
com and downloading the right ones (you can type your computer code in and find them asap), I was soon back in business.
P. S. thank god it has 4 USB ports!PROS:Durable CasingQuick ProcessingMemory size when purchased is 2gbReasonable graphics memory4 USB portsD/V and HDMI portsCONS:Hard drives dont last forever (give or take 7 years)Mouse pads need the Synaptics controls (free to download)Audio drivers dont install right away with operating systemHeats up quickly (not damaging, just gets warm)Audio Ports are on the front instead of the sideCharger is on the side, and not the rearNo screw holes for video cable on the side of the laptopThe batteries last only a few years (they will only last around 30 minutes on charge after 4 years)
I sent it back to the factory, and 8 months later it crashed again.
After one year the hard drive crashed.
After two years the motherboard died.
Two years is about the life span of the computer.
I got a bunch of discounts when I bought it (i. e. corporate and thanksgiving discount), and I got it for around $570 brand new.
If you plan on throwing the computer away when it breaks, which will probably be right out of the box, then go ahead and get a Dell.
I bought this computer a little more then a year ago (1yr 2months).
They rushed an empty box to my house with 2 day air which allowed me to send the computer to their facility for free and about a week to a week and a half later I got it back and the trackpad works fine now.
The Tech support people were friendly and when speaking with the CEBU Phillipines call center, they were at least trying to resolve the issues.
I have had this laptop since I got it from my sister in 2009, she had it for 2 years and got a new one, since then Ive replaced the outer casing with one from a 1526 that had x64 Vista, and replaced the fan.
PROS: Cheap, good for games, pretty quick, 2 headphone ports + mic port, 4 usb ports, easy to work on, cheap to repair, takes just about any hard drive (mine is out of a Mac, running windows xp pro).
When you click on "shut down" the computer hibernates or sleeps.3.
the computer goes not responding then crashes.5.
No contrast adjustment function in the Display Settings dialog window (which, BTW, Windows Vista stupidly nested under "Personalization Settings" in the Control Panel directory.
com 3-4 years ago.
The laptop is super fast in both Ubuntu and Windows 7.
End of story - I bought my daughter an Apple Macbook and she is very happy.
If the customer who was complaining about the bluetooth issue actually would do his research he wouldnt have had problems.
The Acer Aspire 8920 comes with Bluetooth only on the 2499.99 model.
Even runs Crysis on near max settings.
Quick shipping and gret customer service when i called them to ask questions on sw licenses.
The only complaints I heard from others when purchasing was the internet connectivity and the sensitive touchpad.
the only thing i was unhappy about is.. that I when i ordered it.. express..1 to 3 days.
They finally shipped it, like 3 days later.
The TZ is my third Sony ultraportable spanning 6 years (TR, TX, and now TZ) and by far the best that Sony has produced to date.
After a deplorable experience with my TX series machine that was an absolute lemon, I researched my options and concluded that the only complete ultraportable on the market that had all I wanted was to go back to Sony.
So, you cannot use the Sprint WWAN for internet and a wireless network to connect to peripherals (print, scan, mass storage).
Contacted Sony and they recommend system restore followed by depot service shipment.
Bought a 2GB SODIMM off Amazon for $40 to save having to deal with Sony incompetence.
The first unit I had shipped overnight for a business trip.
It came two days later with Vista Home.
After explaining to Amazon that it came with Vista Home they agreed to send a replacement.
Surprisingly the second one came with home edition as well even after they knew there was a problem with the first shipment.
So we had to call sony and they sent out a tech  to repair my keyboard, he did his thing, i was able to use the laptop for about a half hour,i shut it down adn when i strated it up, BAM the keyboard no longer worked.
But that isnt the case sadly, sony said they can send someone out again and try to replace the motherboard or Amazon will refund us and we can use that towards a new computer.
During the "Computer Set-Up" Vista crashed & rebooted the machine.
Then they replaced some of the hardware (CPU & Hard drive) and returned it without reinstalling the operating system or any software.
Now they want to return to the beginning and make me do their diagnostic work for them instead of making good on their poorly designed machine.
Save your money & aggravation... buy some other system.
I had to send the laptop back due to a faulty keyboard.
Only problem recently happened is the battery charge life and laptop becoming little hot (may be because of faulty battery).
Also the computer runs very hot when watching a movie, running multiple programs, or just blocking the vents(very easy to do).
Plus the free windows 7 upgrade is awesome from dell!
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED FOR OTHER CUSTOMERS TO BUY ONE.
An OS Microsoft even admits was buggy,Microsoft Office Professional 2007 Edition and Norton 360 All-In-One Security 2007????
Three years out date!
Bought this 18 months ago.
i bought yesteday this laptop for $1400 and today is for $1300 :s just for 1 day.
Loves to attract fingerprints.
We purchased this laptop from Amazon and were very please with the computer, but after about a week we had trouble getting on the internet with our wireless connection.
Called support at HP and initially they were very helpful.
Computer now has to be returned to HP for service.
You have to look at the RAM, the front side bus (fsb) and the type of chip for starters.
The operating system is 64-bit which also helps to move things along.
Anyone who deals with numbers all day knows how uncomfortable it is to use the number keys along the top of the keyboard.
I am very impressed with their customer service and plan on purchasing through Amazon in the future.
I decided to go with the 32 Bit operating system to ensure compatibilitywith some old PC applications.
We bought a similar model Gateway MT3422 9 months ago.
Gateway has had the computer for 5 weeks, trying different repairs, without success.
They refuse to replace it or refund our money.
Ive owned this computer for over a year now, and havent had a problem yet.
Since that time we have had to buy two batteries for it because the old ones died.
It over heats and the card will end up dying.
Some owners have stretched out the life of their laptop by underclocking the video card.
anyway nothing fixed or help for one year andNow they replied warranty is over ask me to pay fee before they can help me.
It is less thanone year old and five key tops are off (oddly constructed not fixable) keys areoff due to normal student usage (college papers and business applications)The mouse pad is not ideally centered and the left side (as you sit at your keyboard) is a real pain; easy to turn on and off things when one does not intend to.
It was a top-notch gaming machine back in the days when I ordered it.
also dies randomly and refuses to turn back on.
i recently purchased the 12" ibook from comppartsandmore.. the first computer i received i was not staisfied ith and i contacted the company... they immediatly offered me an exchange with a slight upgrade without hesitation.
He downloads music and plays games.
He prefers Apple products.
The first one I received had some non-working keys, and after contacting Amazon, the dealer answered my email immediately.
Another laptop arrived in two days with a prepaid mailing label to return the first one.
Bought this as an older used but "like new" unit.
Got it for my son and he uses it for all his social network and music downloading needs.
not happy at all took 2 days after the posted time to recive etc.
Wife and I bought these, for his and her computers for traveling etc.
We were originally going to get netbooks, but decided to go with the older iBooks.
For an older laptop, they hold up very well for there age!
Due to bringing an invention to market that is software - based, I needed an apple to program as an alternative to windows.
I quickly contacted BetaMacs and worked with Chris who suggested an upgrade to a MacBook.
Purchased this lap top for my younger son (12) to do homework and play games.
Way too slow for him to go on the internet.
I brought this for my 13 year old son and he loves i just wish it had a web cam so now I half to order him a web cam
But IT DID STOP WORKING WITH IN TWO POWER UPS ,BUT SHE LOVES IT.
send email back on this please,thx
A great laptop for school and anything els for under $250.00.
DR Bargains Is a great seller.
The charger broke in two days, but still works and are cheap to replace.
I got a temp job working for the school district and it may turn permanent.
When I interviewed for the position they asked what experience I had with macs.
Almost the entire school system was on macs because they got tired of viruses.
I told them I could learn quickly and pickup as I go and they hired me.
Batteries range from $25-60.
Be aware that this is the older PowerPC based system, not the new Intel based systems.
He says the unit is in fantastic condition and loaded with great software.
The dvd player also wears out quickly - on each computer, I had to have it replaced.
Although the Latop reached late and had some defective parts initially, but on informing the seller they have shipped the replacements/promised to compensate for the faulty parts.
Several geeks have tried to figure out the problems with it.
And the best reason to give Asus a try is unlike the big companies like Dell, HP, and Lenova, Asus listens to their customers and provides support after your purchase.
Name me any other company that due to customer requests, went back and released drivers so you can run Vista, XP, or Linux on the computer (with the generous 320gb hard drive my F8 is setup with a triple boot so I can run all three)!
From now on Asus will be my first stop when I am shopping for a computer (it already was when I was looking for a motherboard).
This was advertised as Window Vista Business computer.
Buy from computer stores, and via agents.
u need to open the bottom vents and it will be cool :Danother thing .. the laptop these days is getting HOT !!
so we had to call dell customer support and they sent over a guy to replace the keyboard,after that was all done the mouse stopped working and dell customer support is so usless they cant tell us what to do about it.
The latches holding the lid close wear out very quickly leaving the lid to flap open constantly in transit.
The little "night light" at the top for lighting the keyboard in the dark is less than useless.
My order did not include Vista Business, but came with Vista Home Premium.
However, the O/S did install enough to allow me to get onto the Internet, and download all the necessary drivers from the HP web site.
Also, mine has no camera which is very good for offshore trips and missions since laptops with cameras are forbidden.
Also see in youtube the military tests made on the thinkpads.
The laptop is clean, functional, and hard to tell from a new one costing several hundred dollars more.
It met the needs we had, a first computer for our 10 year old.
Ran internet and basic programs that she needed.
There is no back cover.-I contacted the seller for an exchange-hopefully they will exchange it.
When I initially ordered the computer, I knew it would be used.
Contacted the seller, he sent me a new one right away.
We run a non-profit company and are a very small team.
Nothing special (besides tablets) has been developed to justify a new purchase.
Shipped immediately within a week.
Computer arrived in great shape with Ubuntu 12.04 installed.
=)
Bought to replace a motherboard burnout in another unit.
Mouse issues in Windows 7 and missing the Lenovo bells and whistles.
I ordered this ThinkPad T400 on Friday night and I received the laptop at 2:00pm on the next following Tuesday.
With Vista, the system shows 4GB of continued memory.
Keyboard is large and responsive, it is realy nice to have numbers on the right side (same as on keyboards for desktops).
Then when she wanted to use my Thinkpad T series docking station we discovered the SL series is not compatible.
When you use the track pad for scrolling, there is both a delay and then the it keeps on going until you tap some other area of the pad.
Retailer sent a white one even though a black one was ordered.
I bought it with a 6-cell battery, popped in a Dell wireless card I found on on eBay for $5, threw in a larger HD, and installed Mac OS 10.5 and Linux (Ubuntu).
PROS-Very quiet (the fan vents out the side and can barely be heard)-Super compact and light-High quality construction-Still comes w/ Win XP !
!-Super bright screen (brightness easily adjusted via function keys)-3 USB portsHere are a few CONS that other users have posted:-Unintended cursor movement when typing.
He plays his online kiddies game and his mom watches her soap on it.
Buy my computer 6 months ago, I have had problems with the hard disk, take her to radio shack 1 month ago and still they do not give me response, alone that the piece has not come.
My only complaint is the position of the USB outlets: they are located at the right hand side and they interfere with an external mouse.
do not purchase, or else, be prepared to spend $150 a month after your warranty expires to fix the port!
Cons: Manual should have been included in the CD Rom or on the disk, it is cumbersome to open the site each time.
In order to open the top you must stick your fingers under the lip - somewhere - and pull up.
Bought new Sony VAIO for my wife to replace her existing Sony VAIO which we had for over 5 years.
Great laptop for music, photos and general web browsing and other home tasks.
Only drawback is they are on the bulky side when compared to other laptops.
However, still can be used as a portable computer.
The hard drive failed and needs to be replaced :-(
I purchased this laptop a few years ago after researching SEVERAL different computers.
I bought a Compaq Presario Laptop 3 months back and was very very disappointed with it as it had a constant heating problem (It used to last just 15 mins before shutting down abruptly).
Sony VAIO VGN-CS160J/P 14.1-Inch Laptop (2.0 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo T5800 Processor, 4 GB RAM, 250 GB Hard Drive, Blu-ray Drive, Vista Premium) PinkAs always Sony lives up to the quality, technology, hardware and software it has for years.
vista te dara 5.8 rating
First, this laptop does NOT support PowerXpress, the noted feature of the AMD Puma platform that turns off the discrete graphics card in order to extend the battery life >25% (usually 1 hour or more according to their claims).
There are several other companies that make good laptops and sell them without having to resort to withholding critical information.
I have filed a complaint against MSI with Consumer Affairs based on them knowingly providing false information (PowerXpress support) and for knowingly withholding crucial information which could affect the decision to purchase (graphics card speeds).
She had a small notebook and was thrilled with the lap top.
I needed a quick cheap laptop for school and CAD modeling (Solidworks & AutoCAD) and the Dell D610 with 2.13 ghz Pentium M cpu fits the bill just fine.
Not perfect... the power supply cord (which works) had ripped insulation, but this is an easy fix.
This computer is a deal at $130.00 including shipping.
The battery only holds about 30 minutes after a year of college student use.
The laptop arrived ahead of time but I soon found a few problems.
After a day or two of banging my head and thinking I would have to purchase another copy of Windows I did an internet search and found I need an installation disk to get the image recovery started.
well ill be dammed.
The X301 is a nice laptopI tested this laptop running XP Professional (32-bit) and Windows 7 Ultimate (64-bit).
My unit included these options:SU9400(1.4GHz)2GB RAM64GB Solid State Drive13.3in 1440x900 LCDIntel 4500MHDCDRW/DVDRWIntel 802.11agn wirelessBluetooth1Gb EthernetUltraNavSecure chipFingerprint readerCamera3c Li-PolyMy first impression was how light and thin the unit was compared to my T61.
This laptop runs smoothly, fast, and is a great looking machine for the money.
In summary 250G HD, 4G RAM, Core 2 DUO 2Ghz, Webcamera, 802.11 with N, and many ports for $700.
VERY easy to fix just had to disable wireless A and bam works perfect.... also had a key pop off HP had a box to get it here within a day they payed for all priority over night shipping shipped from NY to san jose and back in less then 5 days would deff buy again
I originally had bought a Gateway back in August, but it wasnt doing the job took forever to load and always crashed when you tried to play games on it.
Unable to turn off the light of HP logo on the back to save power.
According to numerous blogs, there is a problem with the NVidia chip (not replaceable as it is integrated into the mother board).
However, I paid $549, as it is on sale at best buy right now, as a back to school special.
Out of all the notebooks that I have purchased before and since, ranging from dual 7 inch Toshiba Libretto sub notebook to the huge and heavy Dell XPS M2010 (20 inch notebook with all of about 30 mins of battery power).
However the notebook that I keep coming back to is the Sony VGN-AW150Y.
As time moves on with technology, I have just purchased the newAlienware AM18XR2-8728BK 18-Inch Laptop (Black).
However my tested and true Sony notebook will still be used!
Strong construction and light enough to carry to the jobsite and the hotel room at night.
For a student in college this equipment is a tool because all the homework is on the net.
I bought one of these on clearance (just over $500) from Radio Shack, and I really like this computer.
Somethings on it take some time to get used to like the scroll bar location.
USB ports grouped too close together.
Memory difficult to access for upgrades (must remove keyboard).
First, the keyboard location/palm rest space is non-ergnonimic and will lead to wrist pain for anyone with medium to large palms.
With mouse pad and related related clickable fields taking extra space, loudspeakers on the top taking space, there is not enough space to rest your palms - they end up resting on the edges and slipping off - putting pressure on your wrist area.
This can lead to Carpal tunnel syndrom.
This seller is AAA+++, arrived fast and packaged very nicely.
The Toshiba Computer (Refurbished)with the following features: A. Super Fast WiFi; B.
Free Docking Station; C. 1 GB (Gigabyte)RAM; D. 40 GB Hard Drive, D. Built-in WiFi Wireless; E. DVD Player, CD Burner/Recorder; F. Intel P4 Mobile (M) Processor; G. SD Memory Card Reader; H. USB 2.0 and lastly I. XP Notebook Computer was an "EXCELLENT CHOICE/BUY" for my needs as a Civilian Mariner (CIVMAR) employed by Military Sealift Fleet Support Command (MSFSC) of Norfolk, VA.
AFTER 5 MONTHS, WHITE POWDER SHOWN FROM INSIDE LEN AND THEY DO NOT COVER IT UNDER WARRANTY.
Personalmente me gusta el teclado en espaol, pero con el teclado en ingls no hay problema con los acentos y la "".
I have had it for a couple of months now and I keep finding new things on it that makes it easier to use.
Right out of the gate it had sound issues and power lock up problems, sent in to HP service and they turned off the quicklink buttons for controlling the sound and said they didnt know why it was shutting down.
(I. E.
Fallout 3(at the lowest settings) also plays.
I have been a computer user/programmer/consultant and all other tasks concerning computers for over 20 years.
I picked up this laptop from Wal-Mart on 12-10-08 for $598 in store.
When my Dell was stolen I had to set out in search for a replacement.
After several days of intense research I decided on the Toshiba Satellite.
Good deal to bought from Amazon, shipping fast, no tax & free shippment.
The first one I got in 1989 and it still works (thus, I trust their products).
I use it mainly for quick research and can shop while sitting with my family in the den instead of being in the office on the desk top computer.
J& R Sales sent me a wireless adapter insert card, not the internal card.
Toshiba also makes you ship your product back to them as they have cheaped out on local service enters.
This is based on past experience.
The trackpad is flush with the surface of the handrests, which takes some getting used to.
I can live with this, as I uninstalled most of it, opting for competing products (such as the virus scanning software, firewall, etc).
Just be sure to turn off the disorienting Aero mouse pointer theme (leave the rest of Aero turned on) and update all software (including third party products such as Adobe Reader).
We purchased this laptop for our daughter who is going to be going to college this fall.
For what she is going to be using it for, it is a great computer.
Update:  Power connection jack which is connected direct to system board broke after six months, I glued  it back with gorilla glue, seemed to work.
Then when computer was only 2 years old, power supply died.
The programs that were stated to be on the computer were there BUT there were no key codes with them.
(Meaning that if you want to upgrade to the full 4gb capability you have to BUY *TWO* NEW 2GB CHIPS - AND LOSE BOTH 1GB CHIPS IT CAME WITH!
The partition used for One Key backup is too small to create an initial backup image out of the box at max compresson(by six gigs, firefox was the only thing added).
The cost of the Y430 was $537 including sales tax.
Look at Dell inspiron when they are closed, the back is higher than the front.
Y430 also has a Touch Indutive Panel located at the top of the keyboard.
Touch the "stop sensor" to stop play etc.
U have the option to turn down or up the brightness.
Each person has their own experience using this laptop.
After reading all the reviews from other users and doing some research online, I decided to buy the X460.
I bought it when it first came out and paid a premium price (over one thousand dollars).
It has sold at times under eight hundred dollars and is a bargain at that price!
The reason I bought this was that my son wanted a laptop that could play all the games he had collected but was unable to play on his old computer.
3GB of memory standard, expandable to 4GB, that is dedicated to applications with an additional 512MB built-in dedicated (not shared) for graphics.
This frees up a USB port and no fear of breaking off the wireless receiver.
Four USB 2.0 ports located on three convenient sides.
Ethernet network & B/G wireless built in for internet/network connection.
UPDATE (8/8/2011; 2/29/12): Still a great laptop!
It came to our home 3days before commitment date.
The unit is advertized as having a 320 GB hard drive.
Fortunately, Vista64  can run most Win XP software, but I found a number of applications which have trouble (Adobe CS2, Microsoft Office XP, Chem3D) .
These scores are comparable to a $4000 desktop computer.
All my scientific programs run (Gaussian, Mopac, MathScriptor, etc.)
Second, the battery life is short (one hour - 1.5 hours using the standard battery).
One came with the computer (Alone in the Dark) and one I had (Grand Theft Auto IV).
These laptops originally sold for $800 just 6 months ago.
The reason these laptops are on clearance is that they are preloaded with Windows Vista, which Microsoft has announced it is replacing with Windows 7 later this year, given the overwhelming rejection of Vista.
Manufacturers need to get rid of their Vista based computers soon as they will be hard to sell once Vista is replaced later this year by Windows 7.
But with Windows 7 beta they run super fast.
this is a good product for someone who is just learning to use a computer.
I bought this computer through my friends account, the computer works well but there were glitches in sending all that was needed with the computer (the charger).
If they are one of the seller options use them!
Cannot charge and stays at 2% 8 hours later.
However, as a veteran loyal customer to hp and a proud owner of hp 15C and quite recently hp 35s calculators, I found this net-book to be quite sufficient for class room activities and presentations, internet access and simple word processing.
In order to fit the small size of the machine, hp used a 1.8 inch, 60GB with a 4200 RPM hard disk.
The hp Mini 1000 has two USB ports with no VGA adapter and a single mic and headphone combo jack.
Small and convenient, an ideal Starbucks companion.
A replacement would cost $80 as the warranty was for 1 year, and is available only through the mail from HP as Verizon bailed out on this product.
We have taken it everywhere, from the mountains to the beach, across several states, in the car, with no protective sleeve or anything lke that.
"This is a nice neighborhood; what school district is it in?"
"Where is the closest chain coffee shop?"
HOWEVER THIS IS NOT THE FAULT OF SONY OR MICROSOFT, AND 64 BIT VERSIONS OF ALL THOSE APPS ARE IN THE WORKS SOON.
After 6 months of use, the power entry port on our laptop melted from their power cord... their tech support said it did not melt; it was cracked from forced entry into the port.
The tech support rep "Nicole" refused to transfer me to a manager or someone at a higher level to speak with refused to give me information on who to file a complaint with.
I have also heard that this specific laptop model had saved a marine in Afghanistan from a bullet.
ill send it back, so speak fast!
This computer is a virus magnet.
Pros:Small footprint, bright screen, performs just as fast as the Centrino models (same CPU type), 4 to 5 hours of usable battery life, 18 month warranty.
Cons: Poor speaker sound, no HMDI or S-video outs (only has VGA d-sub), no express card slot, on-board graphics weak (struggles to play even older 3D games), rubber pad feet come unglued from battery pack.
While this laptop is advertised as a business laptop, the BIOS is crippled, and does not allow for the enabling of Hardware Virtualization (what Intel calls VT).
(The rest of the laptop is amazing, but that one feature is a deal breaker)
I also got it in three days, after I was told it would take a month to deliver.
In addition this carbon-fiber pad by detaching itself from the metal base it has opened the internal compartments to be in contact with environment.
Wish the seller listed this on the site....
All the keys are widely spaced, and as someone who spends countless numbers of hours typing, this thing is a dream.
: )
My bad.- Heat in the under hand area is a nuisance.- No lock down when closed
Whilst beautiful, the materials used in the construction of this machine are questionable.
To top this off ALL Sony Vaio F and FW series machines carry a limited 1 year warranty.
I bought this laptop back on March 2009 and throw in 8GB (crucial memory).
Starting with Fedora 10 initially and now running Fedora 14 and Fedora 15 beta.
Bit shameful, on the part of the manager who got to live by his MS Excel spreadsheet that he has sworn his graduation with.
After researching the best pink laptop for a couple of months, I chose this Sony.
I bought my daughter a Sony Vaio VGN-CS215J in April of 2009 as a graduation gift, to take to college the following fall.
Now, the hard drive has crashed.
I bought one Sony Vaio VGN-CS115D on OCT 2008 and after four months of use it started to make a noise that became worst and worst.
Microsoft Vista recognized the mouse but the mouse will not operate.
The display of one of them died after 6 months.
She did not get warranty service as she is outside the United States.
The tech was supposed to call us and when he finally did he said he found other things wrong with it... like the mouse thing.
They said they even called and got a "confirmation" that thats what happened?
Who would they call?
Update: July 23.
Am begrudgingly learning Vista and Word 2007.
i will add that the non-sony box gave the impression i was being sent a clone or a refurbished item which they deny but who knows....) and finally it broke down miserably and which took a computer technitian over 24 hours of intense labor to get running again with 7 this time as it would not take Vista.
After having the Sony vaio VGN-CS215J for seven months, I realize that Sony still have issues in perfecting these lap tops.
My computer snores because the fan is noisy(a note was posted on their website to bring in 2 models for this problem) and the screen flickers at the bottom.
Revised this review after one year:  The computer went back to the BackStage (Sony Repair) 3 times already.
The mother board failed earlier this year.
Followed by broken keyboard.
All within 14 month of purchase.
Sony said the repair bill is going to be $280 + tax.
Poor quality (after the service period)  They looks great when you get it and the poor quality just catch up.
Las imagenes se ven super!
Aun no pruebo el bluray pero las pelculas en DVD se ven impresionantes (el audio puede mejorar con unos parlantes externos).
The computer came as described.
It was a gift for my daughter and she loves it.
computer is bad .. i got it 1 day then the next it never turned back on... had to send back for refund and i still do not have a laptop ... never buy used
After a few days with this laptop, all is fine but if they would update internet explorer from 6 to 8, before shipping, it would prevent alot of trouble.
After a 2+ hour download of explorer-8, the pc sped up to expectations and, for the money, is in near new condition and a fine buy.
I contact Tampa Laptop and they quickly sent me a brand new DVD/CD Drive.
With the new drive installed,  the Laptop can now play any DVD and CD.
Toshiba has decided to recall selected laptop models, which is based on 2nd generation Intel Core "Sandy Bridge" processors.
The recall is due to the recently discovered error on the included Intel 6-Series "Cougar Point" chipset.
The defected laptops are Satellite A660/ A665, L655, and M645 series models, the Satellite E305-S1990, Toshiba Portege R835 laptops, Qosmio X505 series systems and the Qosmio X500-Q930 model.
Toshiba requests owners of these affected laptops to "return the product to the place of purchase for a full refund".
I suggest shopping around; I got mine for $1249 a few weeks ago.
Got laptop and within a day lost windows and now wont load or anything.. not happy at all with the dell laptop.
Windows Vista takes some getting use to, this is a first Vista laptop.
They are well worth the three hundred dollars with DVD read-writable/Vista Home Basic, etc.
As for selling one for 499.00?
jhA Bottle of RainNowhere Near the Sea of Cortez
In fact I ran side by side tests with a 2 month old Mac Airbook and they had the same start up times for photoshop, illustrator and indesign.
BUT, now the outer case is cracking where the hinges are located.
Within the first 2 months, I had to send it to repair due to a faulty ac adapter port.
When I called the customer service, they are charging huge amount of money costing around 250 - 350 just to assess and resolve the issue.
While this laptop is designed for young students it works well for me as a graduate student.
My son however changed his mind and reverted back to windows.
Matt and the crew will take care of all your needs.
Item being reviewedAcer Aspire AS4730-4947 14.1" Notebook (2.16GHz Dual Core T3400 3GB RAM 250GB HDD DL DVD-RW Vista Home Premium)
Try to reach the seller never answer,,what a waste of money an time ,thanks for nothing .
I contacted John with what I was looking for and he responded back right away.
The computer arrived early and was packaged well.
The computer was just as he described.
Computer was ordered on Thursday evening and received on Monday.
best working laptop that i have ever bought,i going to get another one as soon as i get the money
Computer was not perfect of what I needed to perform so called matt told him my fault  he traded me out different computer  will go back to matt  for all my computer needs
Beats paying for a new lap top computer.
Worked good for me for a couple years then lost the W Key - repair is too expensive and glitches started to occur...
Bought one at MicroCenter with my severance package when laid off in 2009.
I have used it with the factory Vista Home Premium, Ubuntu, Mepis, and will soon upgrade to W7...
My experience includes: the white plastic arms under the keys that hold the keys in place begin to decompose or something like that and start crumbling and break into many little pieces.
Had 7 keys fall off the keyboard in 5 minutes, suddenly and for no reason.
In just minutes, the white plastic arms suddenly crumbled apart and the keys just started falling off.
No option to plug in an external antenna to boost the cell card when the signal starts to fade in a poor coverage area.
There is currently a laww sewt (spelling to avoid deletion) which was won against nvidia, but really, this is still an hp problem.
Every laptop they build falls apart.
Take the HP challenge: find someone who was had an HP laptop that has lasted over the years and stood the test of time.
- Good luck with that.
However, 6 months in, the adapter/charger stopped working.
Said they would send a new one.
Ten days later it is a no show.
Ten Days!
My daughter has a Dell, called on a Friday, it was in my mail box Monday.
They wanted to be able to do PowerPoint presentations during the day and watch DVDs at night.
64bit operating system was a must with proven Vista and the best keyboard on laptops (think Apple) make this system a desktop replacement (for everyone except the extreme gamer).
Sony backs the VAIO line with complete system care.
I bought three of them and sold 2 of them.
That was about a month ago and now the computer is acting up again... Do not buy from HP!
I have ordered books and other items from Amazon.
And according to Gateway, this laptop is not in the list for the Win7 upgrade.
only one thing a had problem with is the webcam,when windows update it self for d 3rd time the webcam driver stop open so a have to leave it at the 2nd  update.
Purchased for my 9 year old son, who plays online with it all the time.
The computer that originally I ordered, never came, for unknown reasons.
This pc was intended to be a gift for a friend.
They work for everyday internet surfing, music, movies, and business.
However, they do NOT work well with games.
CONS: Bad battery life, which is common in this laptop series, hard to upgrade software due to hard to find drivers, etc.
: Students, Office Workers.
Did not include Ubuntu as advertised, instead included Windows XP.
My laptop arrived in 2 business days from my order date !
Laptop came installed with everything and also a 3 month warranty.
Arrived in three days instead of two weeks.
Windows startup time now 23sec.
Original CPU T6400 (2GHz) scored 5.5.
An upgrade to T9300 (2.5GHz + 6MB cache, ~$60) will boost it to 6.1 and make this machine fly like anew i5.
Our 8 year old desktop finally gave out.
this model is not that expensive anymore, get one from Costco with 879.00. hope to have one next week.
Would purchase from again in the future.
Good place to purchase these notebooks.
Going back to Dell.
The wireless connection works smoothly and seeks out a connection well.
I have worked on secure networks and using public WiFi, all using the internet easily.
Found out computer is completely useless, motherboard has to be removed!
This netbook is awesome for taking on an airplane or to the coffee shop.
A 92% keyboard with all the keys in the right place, and a 120 or 160 gig harddrive.
Who switched several other keys around?Incredible.
SSD that became available later.
org software and the programs I use (writer and presentation are they are compatible with word and powerpoint thus far).
got this in the mail for my brother, for his graduation.
Keep in mind that I use this computer for school, internet and gaming.
The track pad left-click button has ceased to work for about a year now (but I use an external mouse).
Bought computer from and it had several problem when it arrived.
Tried to get the isses resolved!
), it went into permanent hibernation and I had to send it back to Dell to repair.
This product was purchased as a high school graduation gift for a grandddaughter who will enter college in the fall.
All the games (except Crysis) run smoothly on medium settings at the native screen resolution.
Older games like Warcraft 3 run on the highest settings.
But I use the docking port on the bottom (unique to business laptops) to connect all wires to the dock (and move them all back at the same time) and then connect/disconnect the laptop with a single push on a button.
It was $165.00 and originally sold for close to $2K.
Easy to use & operate!
Bought for my 60 year old mom and she loves it!
Mother board burned up while I was in Brazil.
My machine is in warranty for another 2 months but decieded not to waste my time with them and bought one from e-bay for $39.00.
However, I have been having some trouble with vista recognizing drivers for an audio interface that I have been trying to use with this laptop .
I also bought the additional accidental coverage for 3 years.
panasonic with these great product has the worst customers services, and worst support system.
2 STaRS- Sony VAIO VGN-SR410J/H 13.3-Inch Laptop.- Gray 64bit vista home premium, 4gb ram, t6500, core2duo,Same problems as other people have found:problems:1-  long!
Also my hard drive just failed in mine after 2 years.
It even came with a free upgrade to Windows 7 which was easy to received by going online with Sony.
Bought for my son to go to college and he loves it!
Constant dropped connections via the Wi-fi was frustrating.
Then it kept dropping my wireless connection to the point that wireless was useless- while my husbands laptop in the same room worked just fine (a cheap acer)- sony was no help- found the answer on a microsoft site, updated the software and fixed the problem.
The computer has overheated and shut off.
Took the computer back to the store I bought it and they tried to charge me to have it diagnosed under warranty.
I have had problems with Sony products in the past and decided to give them another try.
Sony product are poorly manufactured and fall apart within months.
Had a friend download something worked for a few months then got louder and louder now its constant and the warranty just ended...
Bought this laptop 2 years ago and i had 5 problems with it...4 problems.. in 2 years... ridiculousproblem 1) the adapter lasted me like 3 months and then it brokeproblem 2)the fan was super loud and then officially broke downproblem 3)caught a virus and the sony client support said it cost $180 to fix.
fixed it in some place in chinatown and got it done with $20Problem 4) non-stop flickering screen and a dying monitor... DO NOT BUY IT UNLESS U ARE THAT RICH AND LOVE TO WASTE MONEY ON USELESS JUNK!
Total took about a month to get it repaired.
*Original Posting*Pros:Portable "14.1 inch"Good battery life (1 1/2 hrs on high perf, 3 hrs on powersaver)Awesome graphicsVery fast and easy to setupLove the keyboard.
This laptop was a gift for my son, who is at college.
Upgraded to Windows 7 RC the same day.
This laptop did not work ( the sistem would not start) had to be returned for a full refund from amazon after 5 days.
It was a complete waist of time and money with international shipping cost, e-mails, long distance phone calls to Sony and Amazon.
Finally got a Mac!!
The laptop recently fell from the roof of my SUV and landed first on a corner of the laptop.
The computer and most important the internal disk, with data, survived.
After all that (literally tens of hours of run around from customer support), it turned out that the problem was a one-line glitch in the Dell drivers that could have been solved in about 30 seconds if anyone at Dell support had known what they were talking about.
The Hybrid SLI system works great - 512mb dedicated or integrrated graphics for power saving.
Then crashes.
Have had this laptop for a couple years now, and have had nothing but trouble.
So from dell mine MSRP something close to $2000.
student discount is 7%.
the six cell battery only lasts 3 hours, buy an additional 9 cell.
In January 2010., keyboard failed again and Sony will not cover since the computer is "out of warranty".
Very stable, stylish (Mac style) and fast.
After owning and enjoying the first generation Macbook Air (1.6 MHz, 80GB drive), this unit is an unbelievable upgrade.
This was a gift for my daughter as she graduated.
She loves it and is on It everyday.
However for the money it brings it down a bit.
Extra time and effort was made to provide additional information and to answer questions about software for the computer and other computers.
My wife needed to quickly replace her MacBook (which needed repairs that exceeded the value of the machine) and we wanted something that would run Mac OS 10.8.
It ran $200 cheaper for the same machine found at other online stores.
The machine arrived in perfect working order showing very little cosmetic wear.
They quoted $390 for a repair.
After researching on the Internet I found other people with the same problem.
Came with the plug and extension cord.
I have used this Mac for over three years now and I am very happy with the product.
Of course, it decided to crash when a paper was due or an online quiz was required.
I owned 3 Microsoft computers in 3 years before deciding to get an Apple.
Once I order the mac computer, Alex was on in right away.
Had to send it back.
My sister loves it, the only complaint is she wished they would have delivered it earlier.
never try apple before, but fall in love with it as soon as i got it
U can spend thousands if being a "techie" is your life.
Or at age 65 U can find anold version MacBook ( upgradable and easy).
Th U seller
My Hard drive crashed and the DC Input Board had to be replaced and the charging cord stopped working.
All repairs were free under the warranty.
This computer is now an old versin !
Bought the MacBook for my daughter for Christmas and she has been extremely pleased.
Although I am primarily a Windows users, I must admit to being impressed by the MacBook.
My wife had an older MacBook (first Intel processor) and she loved it.
The newer battery (a few years old) had started "growing", so I taped it together with clear packing tape.
That worked well enough, but was awkward on hard surfaces (laptop teetered) and became uncomfortable on her lap the more it separated from the casing.
When amazon had a sale on Black Friday, I jumped at the opportunity to get her a great Christmas gift!
My wife is very happy with her new MacBook!
We disposed of her old battery through an e-waste event, but kept the laptop.
However, I had trouble with it on the second day after I purchased it with the touchpad.
However, when they learned that I bought it from Amazon, I had to go through them.
I purchased MacBook based on the advertisement for an mc516ll/a which is a mid 2010 model.
college students  save 168. and some change, non college people save 368 buying from amazon vs.  apple store.
the only plus is you get the felling of waling into a mac store and talking to a genius and a $100 student app store gift card which means nothing when you can pocket $168 or $368.
I decided to go with the very best according to one of my sons friends who is a major teen geek.
;)
Apple continues to be the benchmark for computers.
The other two still run but this one is amazing, runs cooler, faster and as with all Mac products, is trouble free.
I order thi MBP to replace my old 17" that I had sold.
The laptop arrived in good condition and we very happy with it, an early gift for my wife, a very busy lady and gives her a chance to do banking and Christmas shopping online when she has a few minutes with the wireless connection at home.
Purchase price: $649.00!
The battery life is as advertised.
It would randomly shut down (and I mean suddenly the machines dies) and therefore losing lal my work.
Oh, and on top of that, if you order a Lenovo via their website, you will likely have to wait for weeks or months before they can ship one out to you.
Bought it around 2+ years back and the motherboard died on the first week; lenovo did not give another system, but replaced the motherboard.
After 6 months, the wireless adapter stopped working; after 18 months, the battery died.
After half a year, this junk simply fell apart:  A couple of keys quit working, plug gets loose.
Awesome design by Pininfarina - sleek and user friendly, as the desc on the gateway site.
Watch out for similar laptops by Packard Bell, Acer as they are all in the same ACER family now.
It finds web sites quickly and is easy to transport when traveling.
I have bought three Gateway laptops in the past 2 years for work and two of the three laptops have had hard drives that have died around 13 months in.
I needed another laptop and went back to my usual Gateway - I LOVE them and have always bought Gateways since I have been buying computers (13+ years).
Product arrived ahead of schedule and in perfect shape.
It works as advertised and no problems found with it to date.
Yes it came with a one year warranty but Gateway sold their warranty dept to MPC and they went into chap 11 bankrupcy and therefor I am out of luck with the warranty.
Although, the unit was not received and my monies were refunded the owner requested an update.
Yes, the owner was trying to locate another unit, I would not prefer to purchase another unit from this seller, but I would not want to deter anyone from giving them a try!
The applications I use go all the way from video editing, running security camera server software to XBOX 360 media streaming and drafting with Autocad.
There are a few bloatware games that must be uninstalled, but are completely removed from the system during standard uninstall.
The unit was Toshiba Factory Reconditioned and was 100% new in box.
The "reconditioned" status was simply to limit the warranty to 90 days.
I purchased a 3 year extended warranty from the store for $50.
Then one year ago the hard drive failed.
I had a new Toshiba in 2003 but the HD went out after only six months.
Toshiba support offers only to "power cycle".
I will continue to reinstall the Toshiba drivers and eliminate start-up services to attempt to correct before I return to Amazon and purchase another brand.
Shortly after the warranty expired the laptop quit working.
Cons; one of the keys on the keyboard, the "R" pops off time to time.
It lasted two months, then crashed.
I had bring it to a computer company and they removed the virus and oiled the fan.
My daughter told me she received the computers and they appeared to be in good shape, however, since they were for my two little grandsons their father was getting it secured and ready for them.
Ready to use out of the box, came with a charger, cheap price, and shipped fast.
I received a Dell Latitude D600, Intel(R) Pentium(R)-M 1.69GHz, 1GB Ram, 30GB HDD(a 20GB and a 10GB partition), DVD/CDRW, XP Pro,& Wifi.
The main reason They get 1 star is because the sent me a different model# with different specs from what I ordered.
Charles Hall, author ofA Chronicle of Endylmyr: The Witches of Endylmyr
It was due between 12 december to the 19 th but has still bot arrived
The product arrived as advertised and was in good working order with no damage.
I purchased it for a five year old grandson who is insatiable about computers.
It is perfect for him to learn on and the pre-loaded games were a plus.
He gets a supervised hour a day on it unless his behavior is off track.
When they say 90 days they mean it and not one day over.
Was sent in rapid order and was well packed.
I will be making a call to them after getting burned by a bad Dell 600m I got from another amazon seller.
Surprisingly fast and efficient with all programs that include XP in their system requirements.
It was shipped fast and she has not put it down since opening it on christmas morning.
trabaja excelente, no tengo problemas con ella , recomendado altamente.
The first one was defective, able to get a refund from Tampa.
Decidedto get another laptop from Tampa.
When starting the second computer, the first screen I get is a data on copyrights etc which stays on for a minute, then on to the Desktop.
had a trojan on it ,put a virus scan on it now it seem ok. dont know who placed the trojan on it.
It came a day late, but was due to the holiday rush.
He is able to operate the laptop with no problem.
He has used it everyday for about 3 weeks.
Needed a solid second computer to search the internet and search e mails.
This laptop was ordered for my daughter for school purposes.
RUNS GREAT (XP NEEDS AVAST VIRUS PROTECTION- ESSENTIALS IS NO LONGER SUPPORTED BY MICROSOFT) BUT A GREAT BUY FOR A RUGGED USE.
I purchased this laptop as a christmas gift  for my 11year old daughter, it was her first computer.
Going to donate it to a school for their use.
The computer totally meets our needs as it is used only about 9 days a month to present Powerpoint Presentations.
trying now to send back
However, not as fast as she would prefer for things like facebook, youtube, etc.
got this for neighbor who didnt have a computer.
Im happy for him.
Computer arrived pronto.
)and thats being generous.
We plan on buying 2 more laptops with this company.
At up and ready to go.
This was a clean computer and great beginning PC for a child.
It took a week in shipping from the west coast to the east coast, but the battery was still at 72% when it arrived and I opened it.
I had a question about my order & they responded right away.
I purchased the refurbished computers for two of my students, neither of whom could afford their own computer.
They arrived on time and in wonderful condition to the delight of each student!
Stephen Cockrille, Everest University Online, Reentry Coordinator
It arrived clean, and works great.... she loves it!
Decided to keep computer will skip future business with purveyor.
also, returning and replacing it was a breeze with Tampa Laptops.
I should have returned the laptop as soon as it arrived, but in my haste to get back to working, I had already installed my own RAM and hard drive in it and paid to have the security chip cleared by the time I realized that it was the wrong product.
After sixteen months the computer completely died while watching a DVD.
After researching several forums I learned that this computer has a heat problem(mine never ran too hot)and that you need to have it fully taken a part every year to clean and repaste the heat sink.
Walmart has these this week for $350 !!
I have bought 3 of these Laptops for myself and family over 2.5 years ago for $348 from Walmart, what a steal!
In had promised my niece a pink laptop for her birthday if she maintained her grades in school.
The package came well protected.
Still trying to figure out all the bells and whistles.
:)
Wifi  works and gos on the internet just fine, and it has XP  soo much better than windows 8 (what were they thinking when they took away the start button).
Anything in the business world involves black and white.
Good luck with finding your mac book
The computer would often shut down in the middle of a task to install updates which was very frustrating.
ASUS claimed 12+ hr battery life.
The estimated battery from computer shown exact 10 hr, regarding the charging percentage in 100%, 95%, 90%, and 85%.
In addition, the computer does not come with Bluetooth and miss the carrying case and mouse as advertised by Amazon.
I had to return this computer due to noise comes from the top right side near the power jack.
Perfect for a college student on the go.
After 2 days of using it and while playing a game, the laptop stopped working, had power but it would not turn on, after calling HP I have to send it in for servicing already.... just 2 days!
I run Windows Home (purchased seperately), and use it for home and business with no problems to date.
After spending hours trying to connect with & chat with online tech support, they have me do a "BIOS test" just to find out that the test was totally useless, I had to spend another hour trying to get back on with tech support.
After waiting three weeks (still no box) I phoned tech support and was told that they showed no records of my service request.
After trying to order one of these two times.
Power plugs in the right side, an inconvenient location.
Got it on sale with a rebate and a FREE HP printer (FREE with rebate) AND a laptop bag on sale, all in all it was a good buy for the product and price (bought at the "S" office supply store, 7 letter name.
Did not buy at Amazon this time, but a major office supply store (because of the sale and rebates), as stated earlier, got a FREE printer (bought printer, sent in rebate paperwork and received cheque for the amount of the printer).
Had the computer approximately 2 weeks and updates wouldnt install.
A friend purchased the same one for his brother and it too has terrible audio recording.
Started it up on Christmas day only to find it had serious audio problems.
Spent an hour online with HP service tech only to be told to return the unit.
dealing with the hp "total care" incompetents is a nightmare.
this item has been faulty only after 4 months after purchase and they have not been able to giveme a satisfactory response.
one word of advice; total care means "NO CARE".
This laptop has everything my son asked for in a computer.
We are on our second one, a fall off the desk did in the hard drive in the first one and we found it to be the same price to purchase new as to replace the hard drive.
What comes in the box?User manualAC Adapter6 cell rechargeable batteryNotebookConstructionThe notebook is compact and light which makes this highly portable for traveling.
No dedicated keys are present, except for the power switch and WiFi Radio button.
Function key allows control of volume, brightness, sleep, lock, fast forward, reverse and play.
Indicator lights in the front right edge are present for charging status and when the hard drive is being accessed.
The bottom of the notebook (right where the Windows License sticker is located) is warm but not hot/uncomfortable.
The left side of this notebook has the power Jack, network port, HDMI, 2 USB ports, headphone and microphone jacks.
The right side of the notebook has lighted power buttons for the WiFi radio and Power for the notebook.
2 additional USB ports and a port for a laptop lock are also present.
There is an MS Office 60 Day Trial and a trial of Norton Internet Security.
Speakers are in the front edge of the notebook made by Altec Lansing.
Battery life in real time applications (WiFi, Bluetooth off, screen brightness on high, and running the Internet is about 4.5 to 5 hours.
Not nearly close to six hours claimed.
The graphics with the dedicated ATI/AMD chip is amazing!
After one year, this laptop began shutting off.
Took it to computer repair shop several times.
Currently running OpenSUSE 11.2 and wireless, screen resolution, external screen configuration, web-cam, and the remote control all work out of the box as the hardware has all in-kernel drivers now.
However, Ilost the windows password and trying to find one.
The seller should provide the postal tracking number info to let the buyer know whats going on with shipment.
brother a computer tech advised this unit.
Purchased as a Christmas gift for the better-half as this system is her first and only computer.
For a person who never turned-on a computer in her life, (complete novice) she is very happy with the ease of operation.
They (HP) prepare you to utilize all of their Spyware; Adware and Malware programs built/installed into the operating software.
But, it turned out to be a blessing in disguise for a complete beginner to learn how to use and operate a computer for the first time.
The only way to get around this is to have a computer custom built to your own specs.
This model Hp Dv6 1350US is good for use at home and work, not for gamers.+ Battery 12cell (mobility is necessary 6cell)- game Graphics (for gamers need the HP Dv6 1361)
No firewire port (for this model).
Use photoshop, illustrator at the same time, all while browsing the web.- Always stays coolcons:- the track pad is terrible.
13 MONTHS THE MOTHER BOARD FRIED.
I WAS IN THAILAND AT THE TIME AND HP WANTED 500 DOLLARS TO REPLACE THE MOTHERBOARD, THEN 6 MONTHS LATER THE LED SCREEN STOPPED WORKING.
My husband had researched this laptop and had planned to buy it from Office Max but it was not in stock so we decided to make our first purchase from Amazon and ordered it.
The Hp get 5 and 1/2 starsTP from boston
windows media center periodically stops working with message ( windows media center crashed)3. hp advisor keeps crashing on startup
This pc stays in the family room on the wireless connection and is couch toy.
It appears the video connector on the board (where the cable plugs in) is at fault.
We need the LCD board (not invertor) replaced, but finding that individual part separate from the LCD is nearly impossible.
"Another problem is that only two of the three USB ports works.
When I ordered the HP G61 for my Wife to use in her Real Estate business, I expected a full plastic shell (ala Acer) but was pleasantly suprised to find a chrome keyboard base.
Needless to say my three children are jealous (all Acer users) and now want an HP.
My husband needed a new laptop for his home business.
Not a big deal since the new, updated router is a major improvement from the old one.)
However, Sysmantec anti-virus feature is only trial for 60 days.
My wife types long documents in MS Office (which opens very quickly nicely and with no problems ) Internet, mail etc etc - all works fine.
Suddenly on Jan. 5th, the computer would not turn on.
As soon as I get it back from repair I am selling it and never buying another HP computer again.
My unit received early 2010 has the very first bios while the update offered is 12 revisions later.
I use it as a media center, magicjack always on phone system ( throughout my house) and for file transfers.
Freedom of usage is closer to a netbook-Performance.
Play video files up to 14gb+ mkv format BlueRay files (Star Trek 1008p) with perfect playback.
Fingerprints are a constant on the touchpad area.
The advertised battery life is an absolute lie.
$530 including shipping after $100 rebate from ASUS.
Unfortunately, this bricked after about 3.5 years.
I have purchased mostly Dell products over the years, but their web site has gotten difficult to deal with that I decided to look elsewhere.
(get alot of glare from light).
Some of the plusses I like on this unit:Runs Windows 7Has a 9 hour battery lifeSlimQuiet15.6 inch monitorAnd as I stated, the only con is the screen is not a matte finish (gets glare from light)Asus is the new kid on the block and they are coming up with some awesome technology.
(They are also getting involved with electronic e-readers).
I purchased and returned this laptop to Amazon, taking a 15 percent restocking fee hit.
I got it back Monday and I had problems again (freezing up) and I have to shut it down manually, I will try for another few days and see.
Cons: trackpad is a challenge, keyboard flexes, and had an issue w/ battery pack and Asus took a month to send a new one and after a lot of effort.
Had this laptop for about 2 months now, no tech problems.
Amazon next day shipped the replacement.
My sister bought this laptop 3 years ago, it developed a common fault with the display driver crashing - which when diagnosed was a hardware issue.
I went shopping at a local Electronics retailer and stumbled upon this machine which is lesser known in the Southern US, however I have now learned they are the 3rd largest seller of laptop computers in the world and have won numerous awards.
Also came with a free case and small wired mouse.
Now the cons;Has the usual bloatware, which is to be expected, but to use them you need account names, keys ect...
The keyboard feels like it is going to fall apart in another six months.
I was very close to purchasing the new 13-inch MacBook when I decided to take a quick look at the Windows alternatives.
Other bonuses include an HDMI port, HD-level graphics, and a Super-Multi Drive (all formats, including Blu-Ray).
As a computer consultant and repair shop owner, I carefully research products before recommending them to a client.
Although Asus has been around for years making component parts such as motherboard and video cards, only recently have they become an aggressive U. S. player in the P. C. market for complete system solutions.
I have purchased,tested, and own an eee series netbook, a 24" LCD Monitor as well as the N81vp-D2 power house laptop.
I have easily sold 4 of the N81VP-D2 to clients in the last two months.
Asus also includes a carry bag, lcd cleaning cloth and usb mouse with the unit.
Looking at these parts there is now way ASUS is selling proper functioning parts.
They must be getting them refurbishment at best.
TWO thats right 2 months after I got my laptop, I discovered I got a faulty video card.
45 minute wait on the phone before you reach a representative, so you know they are selling a lot of these broken laptops.
A 2 week wait before they respond to an email.
The representatives appear to be foreigners who barely speak English.
He said they would send me a confirmation e-mail and a sticker (not even a box).
Got it for my wife because she had issues with her 2 year old 15" laptop (slow booting, heavy, bulky).
She was willing to upgrade to a sportier/faster/smaller model and this baby fit the bill.
It is FAST, the battery lasts forever (though not a huge issue with her) and it is so light and thin it is easy to travel with or to move around with.
When typing, she frequently gets "strange results" when she activates one or the other with the heal of her hand.
NOW for the difficult to operate bar below the touchpad.
(half way from Atlanta to LAX which was unacceptable.)
The computer arrived in a sealed box and had all the accessories one would need.
At first when I booted up the machine, I had some problems connecting to the internet.
Toshiba Satellite T115-S1100 11.6-Inch LED TruBrit... Unit arrived quickly.
I purchased my 18" Sony Vaio last November for $950.00 through Amazon from JR Electronics.
Whilst beautiful, the materials used in the construction of this machine are questionable.
To top this off ALL Sony Vaio F and FW series machines carry a limited 1 year warranty.
The laptop looks great, and the keyboard(which is a copy of the on in the macbook) is way better than the regular ones.
Heavy (6.9 pounds)Low battery life (~2.5hrs on light usage)Modem connection: who uses it now?
I had a prior Sony NW 250 from 2 years ago and decided on a new VAIO and did a lot of research.
With the Blu Ray player this is a killer buy esp.
the 15.6" is a litle bug for really being carried on daily basis, but good for occasional meetings and so.
Within a year after buying this idiot box it started restarting for no reason, then my laptop had a deadly virus attack so formatted and installed new windows but then later i realized there are no drivers for that form of windows.
A "stay home" laptop, not for travelers.
(b) My unit was shipped without controlling software for the integrated camera and Sony technical support was not able to help, since Windows 7 would not allow installation of their controller software.
(c) Big BEWARE.
After a couple of months of use, the laptop keeps switching off randomly after using it for 10 to 15 minutes.
Had to replace a device that cost $150.
IE 8 came installed with windows 7 and it still sometimesdisables the back button AND internet options under Tools still fails.
filesand then both back button and internet options under toolsgets RE-Enabled (Greyed Out) when it fails.
Also the first time I did a back up to Media CD (using DVD Drive)the Sony crashed and killed my DVD drivers and I had to uninstallall dvd drivers and reinstall them.
Keys of the VAIO laptop started coming out within a few months of purchase.
I called SONY helpline (1-800-4-VAIOPC) and they said they will send someone to repair onsite and asked me to fax the receipt.
Next day someone called me back and told me to send it to their repair facility in San Diego.
Three days later, I got a call  from the repair center and said that this repair is not covered and I have to pay $181 for the repair.
They refused and returned the laptop without repair.
After 5 months of purchasing a brand new one, I had to get the fan and the hard drive replaced.
Four months later, I am having to get the fan replaced again.
Initially, the first day after I opened the box it conked out and refused to boot.
After having it for about a year it began to shut down unexpectedly.
I had to return to the store, where they helped me out for free this time.
Mine has multiple small cracks after only 1 year.
I was initially obsessed with getting a laptop with a dedicated graphics card but found this to work fine with what I use it for which is mainly surfing the web and playing music and video via the hdmi out to my home theater system(this is very versatile).
Shortly however I noticed when I charged the laptop to 100% and turned the laptop off,24 hours later the battery would be at 90% or less.
Search "Sony Vaio battery drain".
Sony will not release a "fix" for it,in fact in one customer service report they describe this as a feature.
Do your research, now I will take a 85% hit in return price and need a new laptop for school starting January.
Stylish, well made and easy to use but the short battery life (2 hrs max) is very limited and that is with an extreme power saving config.
Ended up sending back to Amazon for a refund.
Great computer for the money.
Spoke to Ritz and told him my hard drive is dead, he felt the need to waste about 30 min.
I was leaving country but he could not expedite my repair so I got transferred to JR who spent about 15 min.
Called again and spoke to Woo - no help at all.
Excellent operation system windows 7 professional to swicht to XP request additional work and configuration.
advantaged price compare other laptop brand  with almost the same spec (lenovo, Hp and acer) No doubt 3.3 pound for such a powerful respond.
Five start in shipping and relaible product.
My son is now the proud owner of a Dell that works albeit well after the majical day.
Instant wake from sleep when you open the lid.
Mechanical internet switch when lid is closed which is great for planes and security.
Windows 7 exasperates the problem with a space consuming "ribbon" across the top.
Toshiba Satellite T135-S1305 TruBrite 13.3" Ultrathin Laptop (Black)
Happy with the purchase.
It has a very compact feel when carried due to the very narrow tapered front.
Now I said the computer is good, however, dealing with the home company is not.
Came with Vista and DVD to upgrade to Win7 when it came out.
The problems began when upgrading to Win7.
Computer crashed regularly after lousy warranty ran out.
Cost $150 to have computer shop fix the problem and retrieve data.
However, I am not tech savy and unless you are, this machine ships with NO user guide and a user has NO way of knowing they MUST create THEIR OWN backup disc BEFORE making changes to various programs.
I had to search the internet to get a telephone number for Acer.
Acer executives making decisions need to revisit their decision to cut costs by eliminating user manuals, system backup discs and 24/7 telephone support.
My computer broke, but luckily it was still under the one year warranty, then they sent it back and it broke again.
I love to play with HD Video (H.264, VC-1, etc), this computer can handle them using a very low CPU percentage, for example I can see a video 1920x1080 with 20 MBPS of bit rate in Windows Media Player and the CPU is usage is of around 20%.
We have experienced quality problems right after warranty time:1- Our $1066 laptop began to have dead pixels after a year and went completely dead after 2 years.2- Battery charging plug has problems with intermittent on/off.
Buy a original bluetooth chip from Ebay - It comes as a kit with bluetooth chip, 8pin wire and a screw to secure it inside.
However, there are unecessary steps in opening the computer to reach the space for bluetooth installation space.
Remove Keyboard by taking off 4 screws from back and unplugging the cable6.
Remove front cover by removing 8 screws from back (Service manual says 7screws) 2 below the keyboard, unplug the mouse/pointing device cable7.
Reassemble the Laptop in reverse order.9.
You get a factory installed bluetooth for $18 from ebay & if you have some simple skills to unscrew the front cover and rescrew it again.
I bought this computer back in January, after having bought one on Ebay that failed to even turn on when it arrived.
Good Customer service, product arrived quickly and was what was advertised.
eMachines E627-5583; OS:Windows 7 Home Premium 64-Bit (U Need to Burn Ur Own Discs); Processor:AMD Athlon 64 Processor TF-20 (1.6 Ghz, 512 KB L2 Cache); LCD:15.6" HD LCD; Graphics:ATI Radeon HD3200 Graphics Up to 896 HyperMemory; Memory:2GB Memory; Storage:160 GB HDD; Optical Drive:DVD-Super Multi DL Drive; Card Reader:Multi-In-1 Card Reader; WLAN:802.11 b/g; WWAN:No;Bluetooth:No; Webcam:eMachines Webcam; Battery:6-Cell Li-Ion Battery
Laptop is used to run Adobe and some mid range gaming.
Beats Newegg by $100.
I have and HP Pavilion dv2650et which died after 2 years.
They get very hot and eventually Nvidia GPU on the motherboard dies.
The notebook has no power and no active LEDs.
The battery charge indicator light does not turn on when the battery is installed and the AC adapter is connected.
We gave one to each of our two kids for Christmas and they have both performed flawlessly.
You will have to leave your PC to service department for at least a month if you have warranty, and if your warranty is over may God help you since your will have to pay several hundred dollars.
Managers are arrogant and chooses to fight with the customer instead of offering solutions.
I reported it to HP customer service right away (in India) but HP said that they have no record of that call.
To make a long story short, the computer was returned to HP who then indicated that they regarding the loose molding as physical damage and not covered.
The company is not following through on their support or warranty.
They need money.
I know since I use to work with HP (EDS) people.
Now I need to purchase a new battery after a few months, guess I will get a 12cell instead, which is $100+, better to get a different model.
I bought this computer from Amazon two weeks ago for $699.
While we were on hold(about twenty minutes) with customer service they jumped the price to $899.
Now it is back to $699.
Friends and colleagues at other companies were happy with theirs.
The N wireless card is fast and furious on the N+ Router (Belkin).
However the keys do get lost in w very low lighting.
The purchase, shipping and arrival were effortless and fast, it actually arrived the next day.
4 months after purchasing this computer, for my work, 2 things were malfunctioning.
I sent it in for servicing after talking to tech support and included a note with an arrow highlighting the bad USB port.
It is an easy-to-use notebookIntel Pentium Dual Core T3400(The return of Pentium) good CPU with double Core processor.
For Graphics Video Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 4500M is on board Mobile Intel GL40 Express Chipset support general purpose.
Great laptop for a $400-500 computer.
I got mine for $430 after two big rebates at Staples.
It was easy to upgrade the RAM (Memory) from 2GB to 8GB for $50.
But everything with this machine was easy, set up to internet, program installation etc.
I purchased the Lenovo SL410 after my trusty, 5 year old Dell finally died and I must say, I am extremely impressed.
My sister has a Dell Mini Netbook, which she paid $550 for less than a year ago, and she cant get any wifi from her room.
(However see the spacebar con listed below.)
)****Middle of the Road things.1.
As these are used or refurbished they vary in condition but are as advertised.
Sent #2 son off to college with this and he loves it.
However, the size is real advantage when I travel: it is more comfortable on a plane, it is a quick start-up from sleep mode, and battery life is really long.
Finally, I also use this laptop to watch movies from the Internet (Netflix, Hulu) on larger computer monitor.
Had a "related" problem: Several months after getting my computer (the Acer) I was ordering another product from Amazon and inadvertedly clicke my "one click purchase" button.
Had to contact many people on many different "contact" phone numbers and on-line numbers.
Finally learned there was nothing that could be done except to "not accepte" the unwanted additdional Acer and to send it back.
Amazon needs to develope a plan to facilitate repair or erradication of errors made by consumers when ordering on-line.
Many of my elderly friends have stopped all Amazon ordering as a result.
I travel a lot for business, and I lug around a 14-inch top-shelf business laptop, (company property).
Four months, perfect operation.
the machine is hot after using while.
Really find the hdmi output useful for streaming netflix... a real breeze to connect.
Downloaded and installed firefox and was streaming video from netflix in prob 1hr of unpacking.
arrived in 3 days from ordering it.
She needed a Netbook variety for her daily use.
After extensive research, I decided it was better to to go with something that she can use beyond her undergradtuate years.
The product was on pre order for three weeks.
Windows 7 was up and running in a jiffy.
My daughter will be using it for running complex complex graphics and stats algorthims for her neuro research projects.
The laptop has enough ports for normal use - USB, HDMI, Ethernet, audio jacks etc.
Battery - it is close to the advertised life.
Still new, want to test it further before making judgement on this.
Pero los problemas en realidad no son de hardware.
Laptop we ordered arrived within a few days (yesterday),in great condition.
We were specifically looking for a smaller computer that we could take on trips to download photos of our travels and transport photos from home to show family and friends.
Monitor started to fail almost immediately.
We want our money back!!
Purchased from a reliable company can save you money that can go elsewhere.
This item was sold through a company named Tampa Laptops in Tampa, Fla.
The computer arrived in great condition, however when I shipped it to my travel location it was damaged during that shipment.
I contacted Tampa Laptop and they repaired it within 2 days and shipped it back.
The shipping was very fast and it arrived in time for our trip.
not a top of the line laptop, but my 15 yr old needed one for school and for playing his games.
only worked for 2 months
but i decided to get the D610 instead of the D620 that they had well to my surprise i was sent the D620 with a note saying that they had upgraded my order Free of CHARGE first of i was so happy.
My daughter, (a college student in her last semester), opened it, turned it on, and booted up and connected to her wireless internet, and was doing her homework in less than 10 minutes.
(Even her sisters  $1500.00 one she had used this summer.)
Just a followup from my first review after purchase back in July 2012.
gonna order another from them soon.... thanks for a very good product.
MADE FOR A KID IN ELEMENTARY.
One my secretary is using for travel and backup of office supplies.
THIS gave up the ghost after about 2 months......
He caught up with all his school work and got a B in the computer class that he was failing.
was shipped quickly and a big gripe of mine was averted when I opened the package and it was wrapped with total protection in mind.
It arrived a day early.
Vendor answered my questions promptly and shipped the computer quickly.
On the 3rd day, the monitor went totally white.
Thank God they returned all my money.
Pleased with laptop, small but efficient, came with proper software, easy to set up and use.
However, it is not the fastest when loading websites etc.
There was also a cut in the cord leaving exposed wires.
Laptop came as advertised.
The computer had a few scuffs and scratches across the top but came up very quickly when turned on.
The Dell Latitude D620-1.66 Laptop computer arrived with Windows XP and the one I ordered was to have Windows 7 on it.
My second order, one was a started for my Daughter the other a starter for my Mother, both products worked very well even for advanced users, very good packaging!
This was bought as a starter laptop to introduce person to a computer.
Main functions are what we wanted to teach, and they are there.
Tardo demasiado en ser enviado, llego en mal estado (sucia, raspaduras), la laptop no trae el disco duro, ademas no trajo ni el adaptador para cargar la batera de la lap, no trajo ningn accesorio solo la laptop, no viene con windows 7, ella usa es XP, no concuerda con la descripcin del productor que el vendedor coloca, ademas que tuve que pagar servicio tcnico para acomodar detalles tcnicos no solo en cuanto a la ausencia del hard drive si no tambin de problemas con el software... mi recomendacin es que no se si a todos los compradores les paso lo mismo pero tomen en cuenta mi caso y que ya estn advertidos...
I buy Dell computers to take to Tanzania to colleagues who can only spend $200 and a little more.
They are responsive and help with any questions.
These Dell 610-620 stand the test of time.
(Know your seller)
It was packaged appropiately to prevent damage during shipment.
however, something was not right with the screen, i tried to contact the seller via email thru amazon just a couple days after receiving my laptop and he never replied.
She will get used to the difference between Windows 7 and XP quickly and enjoy her computer.
Takes time to get used to Windows 7.
Nice touchpad (besides the buttons).
Also, my home Internet signal works fine yet the computer loses the signal and stalls out a few times a day.
And after it finds the connection again this piece of crap takes forever to get to the Internet.
Con ella he podido correr juegos que requieren muchos recursos de memoria y video y los juego sin ninguna novedad.
If U Got The $$ Go Look It Up ONLINE & Buy IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!
It is lightning fast, super sleek, and can take a  day on the job with 19 hours of battery life.
Our school purchased a Latitude laptop for every teacher in our school this year.
Several crash in lieu of a screen saver-- students come in for a class, you teach for an hour and return to the computer to complete you work and, Voila!, the lover blue screened fatal error message.
This has happened this morning six times already and it is only 10:26 am.
Acer support was zero help they just keep telling you to do the things you have told them doesnt work.
Still going strong, after being used on a daily basis, both at home and at school.
Never froze never slowd down and never heated up..... they are fast.
For the person who posted they cant reach customer service lol WOW!!!
MSI is know for those who say they are unknown.
MSI is well internationally known for their motherboards.
They can do nothing for the computer except a reset (which they claim will fix the sound tpo).
Sony customer service is horrible, I sent it back and waited 1 month for a refund because Sony only gives credit card refunds once a month; which is ridiculus; and still did not get a refund after repeated calling and emails.
I hope sony in able to fix it (sent it back today), I do not want to have to research another laptop.
This is very useful while travelling and when the laptop is shutdown.
bought this unit for my brother, works fine for a month after that it starts to hang now & then, he had it check up, BIOS was the suspected problem.
To think i ordered it brand new, he also notice there where file pictures and videos in the hard drive..... so it was a used computer sold by amazon as brand new...
They had me express it back to them, shipping paid, fixed it & returned it in less than a business week.
After two mandatory troubleshooting months, Dell gave me PERMISSION to send it back to repair.
The problem was fixing because there were only one time with this problem after several months of the problem happened.
When the lid is closed to put it to sleep at the end of using it for the day/night/session, when the lid is reopened about 85%-90% of the time the keyboard is not recognized, the other 10%-15% of the time the mouse is not recognized.
Still using the 320GB HDD in an enclosure as an external HDDAcomdata Tango USB 2.0/eSATA 2.5-Inch SATA Hard Drive Enclosure TNGXXXUSE-BLU (Blue).
I have called several times now and spent hours on the phone with clueless help desk staff.
I finally got an RMA# after begging one of the second level support techs.
Then after trying to send the system in to get the repairs done with the RMA# I found out that Asus will not honor the "free two way overnight shipping" included with the warrant.
The other poor design choice is the use of a touch sensitive pad instead of a switch to launch the express gate.
The only way to stop it is to remove the battery while transporting or storing the system.
Flickering started from the 3rd month.
You need to remove the hinge at the left where the monitor is fixed to the base and press the black padded wire against the white plug.
Had one year warranty, but it became dead just after a year.
He travels with it.
Will update this review later on success.
So figure in another $20 for that on top of the Amazon price.
Good Laptop for Home; easy to set up.
even minecraft runs at 50-70 except in jungles (10-20 fps).
I use mine for one hour during the day and one hour at night.
I purchased mine at SAMS during Christmas of 2008 for a good sale price which has gone up since then.
About a month the charger stopped working.
Constant start up problems, disc stuck in optical drive... needed repairs force me to buy a new laptop.
My LCD stopped working two months after the warranty period.
Dell initially told me they would send the replacement part at no cost but then reneged on their promise after spending countless hours and over a dozen communications with them.
Dell lost a customer for life over a $60 part.
The Dell laptop I ordered  was perfect for my son - he stays on it all the time!!!
The laptop crashes alot and has to be repaired.
She needed her own computer for photos editing and homework.
At first he thought there were issues, but with the help of his tech savy friend he was able to update the operating system and all is well for what he wants it for.... it was affordable and received when promised.
This product came in a brand new sealed box with all parts and accessories.
I COULD CANCEL THE SECOND LAP TOP (THANKS GOD).
when on Youtube/Internet Explorer.
Additionally, I cleaned the keyboard with isopropyl alcohol and the trackpad had a white haze when the alcohol evaporated.
Amazon is an great company to order from.
cut back on the porn yall.
MS Office expires after 60 days, but this seems a typical installation on new computers these days.
Beautiful looking, and worked fine for about a month, before starting with "No Operating System Found" messages.
Re-boots initially helped, but eventually not.
Sony sent field service to replace hard drive (500 GB).
Problems reoccurred within days, with next step re-formatting new drive.
Had even worse luck with Samsung Rant mobile phones, with 3 of 6 new phones failing within 19 months!
Bought this computer a few weeks ago when they dropped the price.
Takes literally 3 seconds to get to a browser from a powered off state.
I am an online student who does online research, classes and use microsoft office.
Nothing to complain about after two months of ownership.
I purchased this computer from Wal-Mart because I was tired of rent to own and having them call you every week before the payment is even due, or harassing the phones when you are a few hours late with a payment.
Runs great for browsing the Internet and normal user products, ie Office, Photo Shop, etal.
Sec /MCTS/MCITP Certified AdminAcer Aspire 15.6" Notebook Computer - Black (AS5517-1127)
they make to many and you will find it soon on goodwill stores.
HOWEVER, the wifi assistant would stop and literally disappear from my desktop.
laptop jus died on me.. apparantly someting is wrong with the cpu... :(.. i am thinking about purchasing a new one already....  think it wil cost to much to repair
They also show skin oils easily.2.
Boot time is around 15 seconds only and wakes up pretty quickly from sleep mode.
Heat Management is a problem..
There is excessive heat from the lower left side where the fan is located.
Need to use a heat guard for a more comfortable use.2.
Biggest complaint is heat management.
The shipping was on time although it was close to the 4th of July.
I purchased this to serve mainly: 1) to connect to 50" plasma and stream Internet TV and 2) as an emergency backup to my work laptop.
After much time,frustration and effort discovered that the HP DV6 would "break" my network each time I tried to access Internet.
Unfortunately, the remote that is included with the USB TV tuner does not function as described in the user guide.
This card helps out with more of the demanding resources when playing a PC game, and will drop the battery life.
computer was bought used came in perfect condition and is extremely fast.
Lately the video drive has crashed 4 times and it causes my computer to have to restart from a earlier time.
Got it for my 11 yr old, fired right up and she got on the internet in 10 minutes with little assistance.
"There is no fear where love exists.
Rather, perfect love banishes fear, for fear involves punishment, and the person who lives in fear has not been perfected in love."
You will incur problems, it overheats too fast, the hard drive and system board equipped in this laptop are not very stable, be prepared to send your laptop out for multiple trips to repair shops if you buy it.
Instead of another laptop, we did a "180" and got an iMac which she loves.
Hated the HP but continue to love Amazon
Again this was a gift to our Grandson for an addition to his music career.
I purchased this after having two computers die in one week!
The software was tops with Windows 7 Pro.
the laptop has all the features as listed on the site  - no gimmicksvery affordable and high quality
I shopped around for a month before ordering this laptop from Amazon.
Her name is Nellie and I hope she lasts a long time.
Get them while they last.
This last one the hard drive failed just after 3 months.
I have been planning to buy a new laptop for months and finally I settled for this one.
6 GIG RAM paired with the 2.5 Gz Duel Core Processsor is powerful enough to handle any and all of my programs, exe ( virus scan while playing Battlefield Bad Company 2 with graphics on the highest setting ).
My DV7 lasted 15 months before it started failing to recognize the power adapter.
This computer is now a barely useable PC that my wife tries to work from home on.
Problems with the wifi/bass/treble buttons started arising a few weeks after purchase.
Never again will I buy an HP.. if you call customer service they run you through a list of basics to complete and then tell you to send it back for repairs.
Who can give up their laptop for 3 weeks while HP fixes thier design problems.
there is no online support tracking system.
There is random problems with the media smart touch controller at the top (treb/bass, volume, wireless, and play controls).
Everything was packaged and all proper paperwork and manufacturer papers and stickers were there.
Comes with 60 day MS Office trial.
I have had a Laptop since Adam was wearing short pants, this is the first one to ever die in the mainboard (first HP also) and some of the others from better companies are kicking on a decade later.
First and Last chance HP.
This machine was obtained as a gift, to replace a 3 years old compaq laptop.
temp contorl, after 2 years, it starts to run hot.
mine never got to critical temps (105C Tjmax).
and i put new/better thermal grease (all name brands use crappy thermal compound).
now mine will only get to 60C during benchmark or test.
last note: intel cpu (i5) runs hotter than amd.
Bought this laptop last week, had problems immediately in turning it on.
and the computer then suggests a Microsoft software update!
When this too fails the other option (which is recommended according to the system) is to do a factory restore!WOW all of these problems on a brand new PC which has not been used as yet.....
and they call this customer service?
Fast, lots of options (wireless N, bluetooth, 4GB Ram, remote control, HDMI, 4 USB ports, Dual Headphone ports, webcame and integrated microphone array).
Having being impressed by the design and reviews I had seen, and after having purchased a Toshiba which I had to return due to excessive heating of the laptop, I bought this unit through Amazon.
It (the laptop) does meet all of my expectations, but the AC adapter gets very hot during the charging period if the laptop is on.
Although, the assigned manager has been very pleasant and followed up on my problem, he has been unable to identify the source of the problem.
The key buttons also have a tendency to fall off.
About 5 months later, no longer under warranty, the fan broke.
then again, 5 months later.
now im stuck on reloading windows.
Then press and hold the power button on the laptop for about 30 seconds, then put the battery back in and plug in the AC Adapter and try turning it on again.
I contact customer service and at first they thought I could get help with it over the phone(tech support) so spent an hour and a half going through all of that.... then she told me they would send me a dvd drive they wanted me to install myself.
To do that they needed my credit/debit card given to them for security just in case I failed to send the broken one back to them.
So, 2 hours into the conversation they finally agreed to send me packing material for me to ship my laptop(i paid shipping) to them for repair.
The laptop comes with three USB ports and a smartcard reader.
A friend bought one three years ago and the laptop has beentroublefree.
It completely stopped working after only two years.
Windows & is a great software program.
HP Pavilion DV4-2161NR 14.1-Inch Laptop (Digital Plaid)
and now it updates constantly and is unable to do a system restore.
Bought this laptop brand new, about eight months ago, from Amazon.
would you to send in the sofware with spanish version?HP Pavilion DV4-2161NR 14.1-Inch Laptop (Digital Plaid)
After contacting HP and getting no where I have resorted to the internet to find a fix.
Mine last for  6 hours, even after 2 years of daily use!!
USB ports are close to each other.
the letter is to report on the package the day I arrived yesterday, which was sent to me by the store nitz771.
I bought this laptop for my daughter for school, she loves it!
I had researched for several days before I decided on this model.
I am old school so I do not like hunting for the location of things in Windows 7.
I plan to return the computer and never buy from HP or Amazon again.
they actually tried to charge me $50 for 1 time phone support, or $100 phone support for a year.
HP Pavilion DV4-2161NR 14.1-Inch Laptop (Digital Plaid)
Bought for a granddaughter in college.
WE BOUGHT THEM 6 MONTHS APART AND THE SECOND SCREEN WENT ABOUT 6 MONTHS AFTER THE FIRST SCREEN WENT.
Added small Logitech mouse with tiny USB port transmitter.
I purchased this laptop several months ago for use at home.
Only concern I have is the power cord which sticks out like a long rod when it is charging, and if someone happen to put their hand on it (say a baby or happens by mistake) the design is vulnerable to bend therey causing it to not fit in the charging slot, or not able to make contact with the charging pin.
Gave it to my daughter and went out and bought ipad.
Not responding to my requests until 4-5 attempts later.
Only to find the same incident occurred.
Finally I decided I would call HP customer support and they were very friendly and free :)!
She loves the touchscreen, and it runs excellently.
Like the dog with one eye, three legs and a missing tail that answers to the name Lucky, wellll I got lucky or should I say I received Lucky when my "TOUGHBOOK" showed up at the door.
Like a long lost puppy this lapdog looked like it had been drug behind a truck, left out in the rain and never put away.
Yes ole Lucky was missing some parts (no CD drive) and the ears(corners) were clipped.
Some of the reviewers are happy with their "TOUGHBOOK".
It has now been nearly two weeks since UPS confirmed the returned "TOUGHBOOK" to the vendor (Tiger Direct) and my account has yet to be credited.
(I pray often for everyone at the AMEX dispute department).
Was happy with purchase.
At the rate laptop computers are growing one can only hope that a new tecnology for batteries can be developed.
After consulting with friends I am of the opinion that one of the memory modules may be corrupt.
(this computer replaced an HP netbook which died within 1 year, which was then fixed by HP, but then died again.)
are the common activities which these users depend on, and this laptop preforms said tasks without difficulty and in a highly portable and attractive package.
After the warranty ran out, the fans started having issues.
The computer would shut down after being on for a few hours.
This seemed to help for a while, but now the fans are going crazy again and the bottom heats up enough to change the color on thermal tape.
Last week it decided that it did not want to boot up any longer (year 2.5).
I recently purchased this computer to replace an old, worn out laptop.
I have had this computer for about three months now.
We bought extra one for student in house and it looks great runs great an ready to go once box was open.
Also came with office program and virus protection.
I recently ordered a refurbished Dell Latitude D620 from Tampa LapTops, through Amazon.
The computer arrived very quickly, and is in perfect working order.
A new battery had to be ordered, which was easily and speedily obtained.
Bought for an "extra" for games & grandchildren and travel.
Grammy has HER desk top computer back.
The old Dell Lattitude is a nice  retrofit in to a Intel Core Duo processor (from a Celeron) and came pre-installed with WinXp.
I contacted the guy whom I bought it from and he replaced it with in one week.
we ordered this laptop and the customer did everything to get us the correct parts and get up and running.
bought this laptop for elementary and middle school kids to use for homework.
The Power and Add-on items sold me on this inexpensive back-up computer for running a small non-profit business!
Tried to get an answer and got no reply&#128532;
i purchased this laptop 4 months prior to christmas as a gift.. when the recipient opened it and powered it up it immediately died..  because of a 3 month warranty i am now the owner of a useless laptop.
College student with research papers , etc.. Had a HP, no problems wirh it, except it was stolen.
(Disposable) I dought I will buy a new unit again!
I ordered a computer and the company sent me a different one, they did not install window 7 as they said they were going to (The copy of windows 7 they sent was a pirated copy and did not work).
I am a full time Photo student at AIP, and got this computer for Christmas (It was ordered by a different account, obviously).
It also is able to run Sims 3 with eight sims per household, and graphics mostly on high.
Multiple small problems, including a recalcitrant discdrive, but the worst was the crash of hard drive.
And this was the only notebook in this price range with Blue Ray and HDMI.
4 gig memeory and a 500 gig notebook are also very helpful... all under $700 delivered.
"UPDATED" To restate the 2 usb ports, i have found out that the (E-Sata can be used as a 2.0 USB PORT).
Blu ray playback also comes in handy.
Disc drive plays blu ray and burns DVDs, neat-o.
The bottom line is that this computer is a steal for this price.
Normally it will get around 3 crushes per day and 80% of the time will lock itself up when you want to re-start the system.
I have this notebook for the last 6 months and today I just ordered a new desktop to replace it.
After researching laptops on Consumer Reports Online I chose this model for my wife - she works from home, needs a high quality, dependable laptop for use at least 8 hours a day.
Thus far this Acer unit has been a delight for her to use.
It boots quickly with Windows 7, robust programs quickly come to life.
For now my wife is delighted, and most married gents quickly learn "a happy wife is a happy life".
Was afraid I would have to buy a used computer to meet this requirement, but found this one on Amazon.
After several weeks of determining laptop computer specifications, reading online reviews, and comparing laptop features, we found the Gateway NV7922u to be one of the top features/performance/price combinations available.
Shipping was fast and setup was easy using the included quick start guide.
The included Windows 7 64bit operating system is awesome, and everything runs much more quickly than the 2 year old laptop it replaced.
This computer just came with the necessary software (i. e. Windows 7, etc).
I had purchased two other Gateway laptops prior to buying the third one from Amazon.
I called the Gateway customer service and got the run around with people that claim they are techs but are just customer service idiots.
com and they refunded my money within five days.
com was they only relief from the event of another broken laptop.
com was professional and responded correctly by taking pride and responsibility with the purchase.
Tab bar too narrow, keep missing itThe raised key board locaters (on F and J Keys) are too hard to find.
Too much advertising software (guess all manufactures are like that)As others have stated, cord keeps falling out.
Upon arrival it would hang at the "Starting Windows" screen on boot up.
By the way, the keyboard keys are flat and close together, there is no independent pageup, pagedown, home or end key without using the disabled numlock keypad.
Amazon gets 5 stars for return policy but Gateway gets 1 star for poor support and defective product on arrival.
Will review after it arrives.
After a quick delivery by Amazon the computer began to malfunction on the second day.
On the upside, Amazon was very easy to deal with for the return.
In the end Gateway gets one star, but Amazon gets five.
A super fast computer, big monitor.
I bought a similair model to this & after the warranty expired, some metal clips used for vibration isolation fell out inside the case & fried the motherboard.
There are dozens of similiar posts elsewhere on the web.
I bought this 16 months ago for my daughter who was going off to graduate school.
Within a couple of weeks she was complaining that it ran very hot and had very poor battery life.
She goes to school three hours away, so I drove to her school and switched out her computer for an older laptop that I had.
But a few weeks later, the computer was freezing multiple times a day, and she had to reboot each time.
Unfortunately my left USB port would allow a plug to go in upside down and shorted the system.
6)DVD drive just stopped working.
7)only three USB ports.
8)I had to buy a recovery cd for 60 dollars!!!
19)The asus live update feature is a scam!!
I had to purchase another software (driver genius) to get the right drivers.
);I have tried to re-install the newest ATI driver - no improvementOverall:A good buy!If ASUS solves the resolution issue,this model will be PERFECT!
I spent months searching for the perfect laptop.
One that was portable, capable of gaming and cost under $1000.
ASUS N61JQ-X1 16-Inch Versatile Entertainment Laptop (Dark Brown)
Did the trouble-shooting on their website.
Send email to their technical mailbox.
Three months after I started seeing a dead pixel on the screen, I called customer service and was told that their dead pixel warranty only covered the first month.
I have traveled with it using the hotels high speed internet (also at home) and have had no problems with it.
Pros: great battery lifeCons: very hot, very slow, Windows startup problems (sometimes fails to start; always has to "install device driver")
The laptop crashes every few days, either with hardware or software problem (according to the minidump file).
Sent a support request and have not heard back from ASUS for two days.
Working on Windows software is my daily job.
Amazon should not sell higher ticket items if they are unwilling to assist in dealing with the manufacturer when a New unit fails within 3 weeks of purchase.
I bought this unit to take to a trade show on 9/12 for which I had to borrow another unit.
I can only hope the repaired unit will arrive before my next show in late October.
I bought a 3 year warranty from squaretrade for just 80$ (3 years).
but, they did not have BR available without customize orders.
Did a lot of research before I decided to buy the Asus N71JQ-A1.
This laptop comes with 2 X 320GB (7200rpm) hard drives not one 640GB (5400rpm) hard drive.
I have always loved ASUS motherboards and used them exclusively in the past when building systems.
Asus also offers a free 2 year "anything goes" warranty, provided you return the registration card prompty.
It, however, had problems which several calls to Asus, re-installing, restoring and voodoo would not solve.
I contacted Amazon via the internet on a Thursday night, and received a replacement on Saturday morning!
the major con is battery life; it went downfrom 2 hrs to 50 min in 6 months.
This laptop has survived several trips, include over seas.
We had been looking for an upgrade to our computer set for awhile (our "old" laptop had stickers that it was designed for Windows 98, ME, or 2000) and we checked out all of the box stores.
However, when looking at any computer, realize what their extended warrenty plan covers, if it is fixed locally, and what you truly receive if something goes wrong and what outside supplier (refurb machine).
This Asus come with a full 2-yr plan directly through them as part of the price!The multi-drive rocks and is so fast.
It has plenty of ports, tons of storage space (500 GB), and Windows 7 is a breeze to work with.
try to find a laptop case in stores before you buy one online to make sure that they fit... it is long.
I purchased this machine when i checked out the specs i thought it was a great deal for the machine, i7 2.8 ghz, i was sold, when i received the machine it was actually a 1.6 ghz i7, and after hours on the phone with amazon, they were going to give me the 15% of the money back for falsely advertising the laptop.
A day later they sent me an email stating "oh you did get the right product, it boost to 2.8ghz" and closed my case.
DO not purchase from amazon, they lie!
ASUS N71JQ-X1 17.3-Inch Versatile Entertainment Laptop (Dark Brown)
ASUS N71JQ-X1 17.3-Inch Versatile Entertainment Laptop (Dark Brown)
After 24 months and 2 weeks the DC plug went almost on fire which was scary, smoke out of the VGA pin.
If you are going to use the webcam for Skype or Messenger or other communications, you will have to know sign language or the other party will have to lip read unless you are willing to buy the external mic to plug into the microphone jack.
UPDATE:  Purchased this micOlympus  ME-52 Noise Cancellation Microphonefrom amazon and use it with the included black windscreen cover via the mic jack (without the extension cord).
I was facing surgery with 2-3 months of re-hab and wanted to continue my on-line computer use.
I wanted a tough computer because I rescue injured and homeless animals, and some of the animals can destroy a laptop or a keyboard within a second.
however, customer service was great.
they use a third party to buy these.
Bought for husband as travel-laptop.
Slows down the computer on start up horribly.-It was FILTHY!
Im going to have to pop the keys out and scrub with Qtips.-Small scratches around the monitor.
No protection at all (aside of the plastic bag on the outside incase it rained).
I have a friend that repairs computers for a living so I gave it to her and she ran all her tests and found out that the motherboard is bad.
I have only had this new computer for 2 years & the mother board is BAD.
I am now trying to figure out if I want to purchase a new mother board or turn this into a very expensive paper weight and go with another company.
Just a few months after the 1 year warranty expired the video card went out.
This was the second used laptop I purchased this month (Not from this seller.)
The laptop came as advertised, with the correct OS and power cord.
This laptop and vendor went above and beyond what was advertised!
Seller upgraded it because he was out of the D520.
He also included other accessories.
Very happy to have the 90 day warranty & support as well, just in case!
;)
This Laptop was located in St. Louis, MO.
The vendor blamed hurricane Sandy for all of the connection problems even though it was on the East Coast.
:)
The seller apologized, made a return of $ 50 and was to send more RAM.
After about the first month of owning it I let my husband use it to check his football information online in the basement while he was watching a game and he stole it from me.
It has become his laptop and he loves it.
Kudos to Z&W electronics for trying to fix the problem.
It has survived Daytona Bike week, Myrtle Beach Bike week and Laconia Bike week 4 times.
Been in backpacks traveling 80+mph with extreme vibration, all with no issues.
Highly recommendAspire AS5740-6491 Notebook & CA Internet Sec 2010
The other knock on it is the battery life.
I ordered this two years ago for my grandson, the gamer, for Christmas.
In addition the OS is only 32-bit Windows 7 - thereby throwing away 1/2 gig of the 4 gig memory (should have been configured with the 64-bit version).
Motherboard shorted after a year and a month of usage, just out of warranty.
Only remaining thing to test are wired ethernet connection, burning DVDs, and battery life.
I tried to purchase this laptop at Staples and the salesman highly recommended buying the extended warranty because he said they had people returning these with motherboard burn out.
I ordered this computer 2 months ago and it arrived in brand new mint condition even though it was advertised as refurbished.
:(Hope to be more lucky next time..
Her three criteria was that the laptop be light (around 5 lbs), be compact with at least a 13" screen, and be powerful enough to handle everyday tasks that she would encounter as a teacher.
When we bought a top of the line MacBook Pro we had nothing but one problem after another for many weeks.
The "Genius" people at Apple stores gave us incorrect information, did not comprehend the problems and the only way we solved them was to go to an outside company (INTUIT) who furnished the answers.
Then we taught the information to the "Genius" Apple people.
In their product description "The CW also features fast, one-touch access to the Internet without booting up the operating system--just press the "Web" button."
!Sony VAIO VPC-CW23FX/L 14-Inch Laptop (Blue)
The options I chose when ordering from SonyStyle include the brand new Core i5 540m CPU, and 6GB of DDR-3 RAM.
The WIFI picks up more signals then other computers in the house.
I ordered this computer before they were being shipped, and so I probably had the fastest computer in town for a little while!
Windows shows 4 CPUS in task manager.
Item arrived on time and packaging was great.
Great deal for the money.
:)
Price ($650) is unbeatable for the specs.
For anyone, who depends on it for their work, especially if they travel abroad, their global warranty is false advertising.
Repairs are only available at certain centers in the US and in other limited countries, making it almost impossible for users who travel outside of those regions to get service.
Laptop======* Second ASUS computer, first a netbook (Great), now this laptop (Incredible).
However, the processor does struggle to keep up with large images.
Update: I got blue screen of death from Windows Updates security mess-up; I managed to check disk (chkdsk /r /f) from command prompt in Recovery Repair and it worked well back.
He said the DC jack was broken and not chargeable anymore.
I took it in, and it turned out the DC jack just broke from the bracketing and was inside the device when my friend dropped it off of his bed.
Bought this computer last week after a lot of research.1) Crysis runs at all high setting 4xAA.
Complete the system restore back ups immediately (4hrs.
and 3 DVDs).
Also there is one "Application" on the Acer website called Optical Drive Power Management.
Well constructed gun metal aluminum (light)2.
Multi task with Office 2007 and with multiple web browser tabs open6.
Single Core & Vista operating system.
$399 during a refurbished sale.
Just below the unit are the controls for power, sound, media controls and WIFI.
On the left side of the laptop you will find the following ports...
External Video ConnectorHDMI ConnectorRJ 45Ethernet port (10/100)eSATA Connector2 USB PortsA notebook expansion Port (which holds the remote for controlling the CD and windows media)A integrated SD-MS/ProMMC/XD ReaderOn the right side of the laptop you will find the following ports... Power ConnectionLocking mechanismRJ11 Modem port2 USB portsBlu-Ray DVD Drive & BurnerOn the front of the display you will find indication lights for the power, battery and hard drive and connections for connecting external headphone and a microphone.
Here is some CPUz output from when I first got the laptop up and running:Processors-------------------------------------------------------------------------Number of processors  1Number of threads  4APICs-------------------------------------------------------------------------Processor 0-- Core 0-- Thread 0 0-- Thread 1 1-- Core 2-- Thread 0 4-- Thread 1 5Processors Information-------------------------------------------------------------------------Processor 1  ID = 0Number of cores  2 (max 8)Number of threads 4 (max 16)Name  Intel Core i5Codename  ArrandaleSpecification  Intel(R) Core(TM) i5 CPU  M 430  @ 2.27GHzPackage (platform ID) Socket 1156 LGA (0x4)CPUID  6.5.2Extended CPUID  6.25Core Stepping  C2Technology  32 nmCore Speed  1330.2 MHzMultiplier x FSB 10.0 x 133.0 MHzRated Bus speed  2394.3 MHzStock frequency  2266 MHzInstructions sets MMX, SSE, SSE2, SSE3, SSSE3, SSE4.1, SSE4.2, EM64T, VT-xL1 Data cache  2 x 32 KBytes, 8-way set associative, 64-byte line sizeL1 Instruction cache 2 x 32 KBytes, 4-way set associative, 64-byte line sizeL2 cache  2 x 256 KBytes, 8-way set associative, 64-byte line sizeL3 cache  3 MBytes, 12-way set associative, 64-byte line sizeFID/VID Control  yesTurbo Mode  supported, enabledMax turbo frequency 2533 MHzMax non-turbo ratio 17xMax turbo ratio  19xMax efficiency ratio 9xMax bus number  63Attached device  PCI device at bus 63, device 2, function 1Chipset-------------------------------------------------------------------------Northbridge  Intel Havendale/Clarkdale Host Bridge rev.
06Memory Type  DDR3Memory Size  4096 MBytesChannels  Dual, (Symmetric)Memory Frequency  532.1 MHz (4:16)CAS# latency (CL)  7.0RAS# to CAS# delay (tRCD) 7RAS# Precharge (tRP)  7Cycle Time (tRAS)  20Row Refresh Cycle Time (tRFC) 60Command Rate (CR)  1TMCHBAR I/O Base address  0x0FED10000MCHBAR I/O Size  4096MCHBAR registersMemory SPD-------------------------------------------------------------------------DIMM #  1SMBus address  0x50Memory type  DDR3Module format  SO-DIMMManufacturer (ID) ASint Technology (7F7F7F7F7F7FC100)Size  2048 MBytesMax bandwidth  PC3-10700 (667 MHz)Part number  C1RE5SR4HNFSerial number  00010500Manufacturing date Week 04/Year 10Number of banks  8Nominal Voltage  1.50 VoltsEPP  noXMP  noDIMM #  2SMBus address  0x52Memory type  DDR3Module format  SO-DIMMManufacturer (ID) ASint Technology (7F7F7F7F7F7FC100)Size  2048 MBytesMax bandwidth  PC3-10700 (667 MHz)Part number  C1RE5SR4HNFSerial number  00014300Manufacturing date Week 04/Year 10Number of banks  8Nominal Voltage  1.50 VoltsEPP  noXMP  noMonitoring-------------------------------------------------------------------------Mainboard Model  A6200 (0x00000109 - 0x00025B00)LPCIO-------------------------------------------------------------------------Hardware Monitors-------------------------------------------------------------------------Hardware monitor ACPIHardware monitor BatteryVoltage 0 12.48 Volts [0x30C3] (Current Voltage)Capacity 0 48840 mWh [0xBEC8] (Designed Capacity)Capacity 1 45677 mWh [0xB26D] (Full Charge Capacity)Capacity 2 45677 mWh [0xB26D] (Current Capacity)Level 0  7 pc [0x5D] (Wear Level)Level 1  100 pc [0x64] (Charge Level)Graphics-------------------------------------------------------------------------Number of adapters  1Graphic APIs-------------------------------------------------------------------------Display Adapters-------------------------------------------------------------------------Display adapter 0Name  Intel(R) HD GraphicsMemory size  1719 MBPCI device  bus 0 (0x0), device 2 (0x2), function 0 (0x0)Vendor ID  0x8086 (0x1462)Model ID  0x0046 (0x1033)Performance Level 0Software-------------------------------------------------------------------------Windows Version  Microsoft Windows 7 (6.1) Home Premium Edition  (Build 7600)DirectX Version  11.0
I have gotten through bioshock and the first two mass effect games, but on lowest possible settings after removing bloatware and forcing processes to close... and I still dealt with stuttering.
i would reccomend this computer, although now i am moving on to a better computer for high school in the 1000 dollar area.
We bought this for our daughter two years ago and it is still holding strong.
She is not the most gentle child but this fulfills all her computer needs.
Then, 5 months later, the LCD screen broke after I put a small amount of pressure on the screen picking it up.
$200.00.
Then,  a month later I started having problems with the VGA connector.
In yrs to come when it is time to retire this on.
The eMchine E725-4520 is doing a good job for the money spent.
The WiFi allows for printing on the home network.
also bought the 2 yr laptop accidental protection plan just in case.
key board and internal speakers are an issue.
I purchased the Acer Emachine E725-4520 laptop for approximately $350 about 2 weeks ago.
The System Information confirms that the machine is a Pentium dual-core 2.2 GHz unit.
However, it includes a CD/DVD burner, which is missing in a netbook.
I am now in the process of having the computer replaced with a new one under louisiana lemon law.
!Ricardo Santiago; Penuelas, PR
Bought a second one for my 6th grade son to use for school.
The only problem that I have had with this is after 3 years the webcam connector got loose, now (the webcam) does not function.
Lid had been open/closed a lot and also has been beat around inmy book-bag, car, airport security.. etc.
The dedicated 512mb video card allows mid-tier games to be played.
This was a great PC until it broke within 5 months of purchasing it.
HP finally agreed to fix it but I had to pay 50% of the repair cost which was over $200.
Other 2 have been great.. thus the 2 stars
i had this notebook for 12 months it used to heat up alot i dont know why one day i left it on charge for the night and the next day it didnt turn on took it to the reapir shop they said the mother board is dead
Yes, they forgot to ship it with the Bluetooth module and also they did not include the Microsoft Office activation key.
Would be hard for the money for anyone to go wrong with one of these.
Then they sent a mail label pre-paid for the return of the first item.
You bought a 5 year old laptop 7 months ago.
They promised to reimbursed and never got the money back.
I needed to get a Win 7 machine but had just bought a Win 8 machine two months prior.
It arrived without a dent or scratch or ding, was packaged great, battery was charged, software was fully operational and ready for use from the start.
A wireless mouse is a must.
Five months later the hard drive crashed.
They eventually agreed to replace it and did.
Then, over a period of 3 months, the plastic center piece of the two USB ports on the left side of the computer broke of while removing a USB port connection.
Also the listed HP DVD-writer is removed from inclusion with the order.
Separate purchase is called for as the unit comes san dvd burner.
I am waiting for the RMA number to return this HP TabletHEWLETT PACKARD -HP - tm2t TABLET PC - Genuine Windows 7 Professional 64-bit, Intel Core 2 Duo SU7300 (1.30GHz, 800MHz FSB) ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4500 Graphics, 4GB DDR3 SDRAM, 500GB 7200RPM SATA HD, Webcam, 12.1" diagonal WXGA High-Definition HP LED Widescreen (1280x800) with Integrated Touch-screen, Fingerprint Reader, Intel Wireless-N Card, Bluetooth, External Tray Lightscribe SuperMulti 8X DVD+/-RW
:((
Yesterday, it was not starting after 1 hour trying to power up, it finally starts.
The laptop also cames without a part of the equipment (No card reader).
Laptop came as advertised.
ordered it, got black keyboard.
wanted to talk to her supervisor on shippingto them or nyc ...... gets back on line, nyc will pick up, fix it, no charge for a veteran.
super was a marine vet.
When searching for a computer I spent hours on the web scouring Amazon and other sites for the right computer that I could afford with a small budget (I am a college student who has extremely shallow pockets).
Mac is good for people who want to surf the internet, load photos, and use iTunes.
I switched to Mac early in 2010 with a 3.06 C2D 27" iMac and 13" MBP.
I recently sold both and picked up the 15" 2.4Ghz i5 along with a 26" NEC monitor for Photoshop CS5 work.
For the difference in price between this model and the i5 2.53 you can upgrade to 8GB RAM (for about $100) and get a bigger, faster 500Gb 7200RPM Hitachi hard drive (currently $65 on Amazon) and install yourself without violating the warranty.
Purchased the 15.4" for myself and the 13.3" for my wife who is starting graduate school in the fall.
Bought her the IMac three years ago for Christmas and fell in love with OS X immediately.
Need to run Windows programs?
He uses this on a daily basis for his schooling and homework.
The 15 inch Mac Pro is great for home, am running mac and windows, works great
And, the best part is that a year after the purchase the Mac had a problem with the monitor and Amazon changed it for a new one.
Though i got it defective at arrival (Webcam is not working), apple store replaced it with brand new one without any questions asked.
After spending over 24 years making my living as a pc programmer.
I decided to go back to an unix operating system.
Four months after purchasing my MacBook pro, my wife bought one then my mom bought one.
They had very little trouble switching from the pc and we all love the product.
hai ... i have recently purchased an apple macbook pro 15.4 inch thru amazon.
I decided to upgrade to the new 15 inch Intel i5.
owned nothing but windows over the last 2 decades bad experiences with them ex.
They both developed problems at the age of about 1 year old.
I have previously owned (2) HP desktop computers, and had problems with both.
They both love the computer.
I had tried buying her a small windows PC.
And mind you, this is from someone who until recently never used a Mac at all.
PS: Get the AppleCare Protection Plan if you can.
Fast connection to the internet which is very nice to have.
I recently switched from PC to this MAC computer.
( due to exchange rates but never the less.
Buying a Mac in the USA by a European citizen will cut the cost by 25% compared to the price over there.
This was my first Mac and now we have three in the house.
I have had this computer for three weeks now, and waited to write a review until I had fully tested it.
The first one arrived with a bad keyboard, was sent back to Apple for replacement.
The returned macbook pro however suffered from daily freezes at which point the keyboard and mouse were locked out, but processes continued and within about 5 minutes control was restored.
This turned out to be a very common problem as fully documented on the Apple web site.
Fortunately, Apple released an update to Snow Leopard (10.6.4) which solved the problem for most of us.
When graphics is switched to the faster chip (this is automatic unless you choose to always use the faster chip in the energy preferences), the computer gets hot.
Running any program that simultaneously activates multiple cores and the fast graphics chip is the perfect storm, and this computer gets really hot on the bottom.
Unfortunately, the software engineers did not provide an option to always use the slower graphics chip when on battery.
You cant change out the battery, and if you are traveling and the battery gets low, you simply have to close up shop or find an outlet.
USB ports are closer to each other and causes problem when trying to plug to both.
After I requested a return and exchange, it took me just a day to get a new Macbook.
And now the problem has gone away.
but now after the 90 "warranty" on those repairs has passed the DVD drive has again failed.
I cannot so much as send an email for help without paying a $49 fee for the privilege of speaking to the company.
The laptop was delivered as ordered, on schedule and to my door.
The computer arrived without paperwork or a packing slip, only a slip of paper with the tech help contact email.
Additionally, when I emailed for tech support, of which I am entitled to 90 days, I received no reply.
and with all the money i saved i bought shells and pastics to protect my investment.
SHE IS CONSTANTLY GETTING VIRUSES.
SO SHE CLICKS ON THEM.
Ordered a MacBook Pro & they packaged it VERRY well!
However small these details be they contribute to a exhilarating and breathtaking the experience becomes.
I ask them how efficient the features work when they come together as a machine.
List of user friendly features Mac has and all others should learn is:1) Illuminated keyboard: Helps me when i want the room to be dark for ideas to flow in (I am a poet!!
I was torn between the 13 and 15 inch models and ended up deciding on the 13 inch due to its portability.
If receiving e-mails is an important part of your daily life then give Mac Mail a try!
Prior to the purchase of this computer I was always a PC user following in my fathers footsteps, however I would never return back to a PC, Mac is the only computer I will ever own.
This lightning fast computer provides every student with everything they could ask for.
The sleek design allows new and old Mac users to continue to carry the most attractive looking computer around.
Shipping was via UPS and arrived timely an in new condition.
There is a noticeable difference with the operating system software that will take about one week to get used to but not at all challenging.
I purchased MS Office for Mac which makes using the usual MS products (Word, XL, ppt, etc) simple.
The 13.3" is just the right size for personal use and very easy to travel or roam around the house with.
My dream list of changes expected to happen in 2011 13" model(1) change HDD to on-board flash storage.
(2) get rid of DVD/CD drive for more ports and lighter weight(3) Make webcam a HD webcam(4) CPU upgrade(5) Desperate Video card(6) Weight is reduced from 4.5 to 4 pounds below.
(7) reduced priceupdate (03-10-2011):on Feb 24, 2011, Apple released new macbook pros.
Switched from Dell to Mac.
A great way for someone on a budget to save a couple hundred bucks and get a fantastic computer.
It was an awesome Christmas morning for my 17yr old son, he has been wanting a Mac for the longest time.
Would it have killed them to include separate delete and backspace keys?
As a full time college student the mbp is the only way to go.
However, I always seemed to have a virus on my computer... even after spending the money on antivirus software.
It was a great decision to switch from PC to Mac...
However, after my MacBook Pro arrived, I must admit that I have fallen in love with Apple again.
The order was on time and at considerable savings from local Apple store.
After replacing many failed parts in my $2,500 Thinkpad T61 machine, I decided to try out a Mac for my notebook computing needs.
Everything about the machine is phenomenal, with the exception of the Seagate Momentus hard disk which I will be replacing (they are known for their reliability issues.
The UPS $35 an hour teamsters have now cost me $500 to stay home and have to reschedule two days business!
They are the cream of the crop for a reason ~ they WORK!
(The 8GB kit will cost just under $100.)
until the moment the computer is meeting my expectations.
Love the ability to come to Apple store and get guidance and answers on the spot.
Beats an option of calling to offshore support center and spending hours on the phone to get tech support for PC
everything u would hope from Apple...
I was a former HP owner so the Mac is taking some getting use to.
Im not real happy with it after spending way to much money.
They are wonderful, but very dangerous when it comes to emitting heat.
I had to call Apple 19 times (each time 40 to 75 minutes on the phone), and take it to their store for evaluations, and diagnostics, 5 times.
For my burn thigh which has put a permanent mark on my skin (it happened 7 months ago) they offered me an ITouch 8Gig (you know it is a bit insulating when a company this rich, offer a loyal customer like me, a bottom of their product line as a gift for events like this).
Steve Jobs, probably needs help and donations, and cannot afford a reasonable offers for people that truly are trying to support his baby.
I found what I was looking for on Amazon from this vendor and they had an excellent rating so I decided to go ahead with the purchase.
GREAT LAPTOP AND NEEDS NO VIRUS PROTECTION.
They have AMAZING customer service!
A word of warning using this App to order items from Amazon.
When I called the next morning to cancel the order over the phone the item had already been shipped and could not cancel the order!
My credit card had been charged and the only way to get my money back was to refuse shipment when the package arrived.
My credit card was finally credited $1200 dollars eight days later.
Easy to take on trips.
Wish there was an usb port  on the right side of the computer.
If you plan to get one and if you are specifically a student dont buy it on Amazon.
And he is now a true convert.
The computer arrived within two day of ordering and I did standard mail.
I brought it for my 11 year daughter for Christmas because at her school they put all there work and homework on the computor and flash drives.
I bought a computer from Russia, delivered quickly, but when friends took him to Russia turned out that the airport does not work.
Revert back was not possible for this took the service center, they said that the problem in the motherboard, ordered parts and was told to wait 2-3 months.
- Op.
This model only has a six hour battery life, not the ten hours as advertised.
I paid $749 for this laptop in January 2010 and by May 2011 (16 months) the screen was completely black and come to find out I need a new screen that thru HP will cost another $350 for repair.
They were able to resolve this problem after a couple of phone calls, but that same day the external speakers quit working.
It also has a silicone keyboard overlay (3 USD).
8 days after the year, it stoped charging and it wasnt the battery.
I also had a student with the same computer, and the same thing happened to hers.
After the first 6 months it all goes down hill.
This computer was purchase for a client and has failed.
HP knew that the heat sink design was false, yet they still sold these laptops.
4 months after I bought this computer the DVD player quit working and I had to send it back.
It plays HD media smoothly, runs windows 7 professional and office 2010.
Go ahead all you Apple people spend 1000 dollars on a core duo proc mac (which i was using before this, but with windows 7 installed, after a friend fried it i fixed it and kept it).
Sold my old black macbook (bootcamp windows 7 because osx blows) for 450 dollars (cuz mac cult followers will spend anything on a 2006 black original).
Before buying this computer look over the reviews and check to see how long any of them have had their computers up and running, I bet the vast majority were entranced (as I was) by initial impressions and would change their words should they be asked to re-evaluate.
This laptop uses a proprietary software program to control the WiFi and Bluetooth from one function key.
Before buying this computer look over the reviews and check to see how long any of them have had their computers up and running, I bet the vast majority were entranced (as I was) by initial impressions and would change their words should they be asked to re-evaluate.
Good buy for the money.
The Acer TimelineX we purchased for my son had the trial version of Office 2007.
From Wikipedia: "On April 15, 2010, Office 2010 was released to manufacturing, with those Volume Licensing customers who have Software Assurance being able to download the software from April 27, 2010.
Office 2010 marks the debut of free online versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote, which work in popular web browsers (Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Safari, but not Opera).
A new edition of Office, Office Starter 2010, replaced the low-end home productivity software, Microsoft Works."
But how can they send me a desktop computer (Thinkstation E20) when I ordered a laptop computer?
cam send desktop PC instead of a notebook.
(When playing World of Warcraft, I had to lower all the graphics options in order to have a decent frame rate.)
I paid about $109.00 for my nx6125 (used) and it lasted about 10 months before the motherboard overheated.
On Christmas day, my daughter opened it and plugged it in.
She plugged the battery in for several hours and it did not hold a charge so she plugged it back in and left it all night and part of Sunday.
Again she tried to use the computer with the battery but it only showed 1 bar.
I sent an e-mail through Amazon to the seller on Sunday, December 26.
This computer works well when it is plugged in but she has not been able to test it with the battery.
However I learned after little bit of reasearch later that I could have bought better product from the same company (HP) for that price.
Gave it to him on Fathers day.
Worked for a total of two weeks and then got boot up error after boot up error.
Amazon said we had a thirty day period to return when we called, it was one day past the return period!So, we sent this piece of garbage to MSI and paid the postage ($25).
Two weeks later it is returned and it failed to boot up.
We called Amazon and they agreed to refund the computer.
The refund was received quickly.
Amazon kept $180 for a restocking fee.
She loves the fingerprint scan and the aluminum cover.
Almost 2 years later.
Since we have had two Compaq computers fail in the last five years - both just outside the warranty period, I am going to send this one back.
Gary M.
Today morning HP advisor installed some software update.
This wiped out model#, serial number from the BIOS.
Also, now they want me to mail back the laptop.
I do not know who the product manager is but he did not do his job when incorporating the Broadcom 4313 adapter into this fine notebook.
HP in the past has been great for products with the exception of their ink jet print heads clogging and needing to be replaced, but it appears that the current group of product managers do not know how to select subsystem products that are included in their products.
My mom who uses this periodically (five days a week for several hours each day) has no issue with it but my son who uses it for long business ventures (12-18 hour days) is already shopping for a new one that will not have cooling issues.
The only problem was that they shipped a blank hard drive with no recovery disks.. After 2 shipments I had what I needed, so I installed the drive and got the system back up and running... Not what I would expect from a "so called" top of the line product.
Does it come loaded with trial software that takes hours to get rid of?
Buy it and a mouse, but beware of the broken caps lock.
this laptop work only two years and after that stopped, on HP service tpld that motherboard can handle went out and repair cost about half worth of new.
When I accessed the Amazon website to find out what to do, the only option available was to send the item back for a reimbursement, they would not replace the item for a new and working one.
It is very frustrating, because we live in Costa Rica and we brought the computer through Aeropost, it was expensive, but it is more expensive to send it back via regular mail and that seams to be our only option right now... so we spent a lot more money than what we had planed.
Right now, we are still figuring out what to do, HP would not help and Amazon can partially help by receiving the item and returning the money for the purchase... but what about our time and other expenses we have had?!
After about three months of ownership this HP product really started showing its evil and ugly face.
After months of being angry at this laptop my wife took it for herself and made me buy a new Dell brand laptop.
Learn from my mistake and save your hard earned money to buy a Dell or Sony.
I am used to upgrading over the years as each time I buy a new computer with new Windows, I have found I had to buy all new software as most of the old softwares would not run with the new Windows program.
The last two times I bought a new system, with Vista and now Windows 7, I was able to update the driver of my printer online and install with no problem.
The battery lasts about 60-75 minutes only and I suspect that after the battery gets out, I will donate it to a learning center, where it can stay plugged into the wall.
Hard drive crashed after two months of use.
After trying to use this for 4 months, I have become frustrated, disenchanted and have now reached disgusted.
I do not want to have to carry external speakers and external mouse when I travel.
This unit has bluetooth which removes the annoyance of updating contacts via cable.
The keys starting popping off before it was two years old.
Plenty of storage space and, coupled with a good internet connection, is lightning fast.
This is (was) my fifth HP.......... the last one crashed after a "HP generated BIOS update" that crashed my laptops motherboard.
This last time,this AM, their automated BIOS update destroyed my motherboard... again...... my cost thru HP last time, was $300.00.
This computer is 4 months PAST waranty.
IAERO 3.3/ 3.4GAMES 4.5/ 5.3HD 5.9/ 5.7I suggest to anyone buying this unit to create HP Recovery DVD as soon as possible.
I decided to upgrade the HD to a bigger capacity drive so I replaced the onboard 350GB/7200rpm drive with a 500GB/7200rpm and used the Recovery DVD to restore the unit to its "newly purchased" condition.
All the ports and optical media drive are on the left and right side, none at the back.
There are only 3 built-in USB ports but with a $7 USB port multiplexer that became a non-issue.
It was shipped-free and arrived the next day.
I installed a second hard drive to this beast(have to purchase second hard drive caddy) and 8 gigs of ram.
Everything except stay connected to the internet.
HP has done nothing to fix this problem, and many customers who send in their laptops wait months to get them back, and to find that the problem still persists.
Then the battery will not charge even after installing a new battery.
With the 5650 turned on the battery life is poor at best.
The HP Cam software and the HP update/warranty software.
Sony offers this feature for $50 when you purchase a laptop from them.
Pros:1) power2) price3) weight (for a 17" model - perfect)4) exteriorCons:1) Weird keyboard layout.
Hint: turn on the numlock (programmatically) and use the keypad2) Heat.
plays most new games on max setting and older games like a beast.
They have offered to change the fan a third time in one year.
After intensive research, I chose ENVY 17.
2)The 9 cells battery lasts 1 hour for blu-ray play back, 1.5 hours for dvd, and 2 hours for internet only, to reach last 10% battery.
In the end, I decided to return it to Amazon.
And the hard drive is also very prone to corruption.
The HP ENVY I had broke for the first time within 2 months after the warranty expired.
After getting the motherboard fixed, the keys started getting stuck in the keyboard.
Th only drawback is the immense heat it produces while running.
After returning the first HP ENVY 17-1011 NR because of a problem with booting Windows 7, the second seems to be running fine.
UPDATE*******After owning the laptop for 3 years, I have decided to never buy an HP again.
This laptop has fried 3 hard drives, the power charger needed replacing, and the quick menu keys (volume, wifi, ect.)
3 in the last 6 months is unacceptable.
Even when fairly new this laptop would continuously run hot, the wifi and treble/base controls would continuously cycle themselves off and on again.
All these problems persisted even after sending the laptop in for service.
Will not be coming back to HP for computers.
great picture and easy to carry to coffee shops!and on trips and vacations!also comes in shiny black case!and has easy to read keyboard!
The Computer has a VGA and a HDMI port.
Hope this helped :)
Due to defective keyboard, I had to sent the brand new laptop to Acer for repairs.
Even with a service order number, it is very difficult to get the updated status of the repairs as one has to go through IVR and then Acer call center where the quality of customer support is not fit for a major PC manufacturer.
As always, Amazon Customer service was excellent and they did their best in helping out with the problem.
In future, will think twice before buying an Acer product for the following:1-Poor quality control.
Acer Aspire TimelineX AS4820T-3697 14-Inch Laptop (Aluminum)
He is a gamer, and needed his own computer.
The next day
I use this for just everyday Internet surfing, documents (Word, Excel, etc.).
Perfect for e-mail,surfing the internet etc.
Dell falls way behind in this area.
However, the unit is actually China make and not USA make.
:c(
Bought the laptop for work & personal use but after only an hour (seriously) of using it it shut off and would not load back up.
Was on phone with Dell for 45 minutes and after trying all their suggestions they could do nothing but say it has internal hardware issues (i. e. piece of junk) and I should return it which I did and got my money back, atleast!I then decided to buy an Inspiron 15r directly from dell for $140 more and that one lasted 1 day before it did the same thing!!
Great for a kid that want to play great games and great for high school students for professional and serious gamers I preferred Asus G Series.
I also downloaded the updated BIOS (A05) and all the other drivers from the dell website and they all work fine.
After I updated the BIOS I was able to overclock the CPU to 1.6 according to CPUZ (great program).
Some games run better on the R1 and a few R2 users have even traded in their systems to go back to the R1.
In 2 months the slot DVD player stopped working on the Studio 1747.
Two studio laptops and problems with the media panel located above the keyboard on both of them.
(Part No #backlit M711P ) google search it.
Dell Support Not very good ( outsourced to India )
The product was old and in poor condition when it finally arrived 3 weeks after it was ordered.
I returned it - took 3 days to get there - and was charged $150 for returning it.
The unit is worth, at best, $700.
Other than a few games she primarily uses it for homework (e. g., Word, PowerPoint, Excel).
She has been using the laptop since July 2010, she really likes it and for her "simple" purposes it has worked perfectly.
Today she experienced the first problem with the laptop.
While using Word it started "back slashing" for no apparent reason and it will not stop.
Nothing has stopped the back slashing.
What is important to me is that they are honoring their warranty with one call (because we all know sometimes it takes 2 or more calls to get a company to accept a return and that is very frustrating) and providing a free method to return it for repair.
THE REPAIR WAS PAINLESS AND FREE.
HP STOOD BEHIND THEIR PRODUCT, FIXED IT AND RETURNED IT WITHIN 2 WEEKS.
Only concern is that the package was broken apart.
I receive the item 2 days after i made order.
Just got my brand new Presario loaded & downloaded my long awaiting email off the server when the computer quit.
After 3 calls to tech support in India and getting the shipping carton 3 days later guess what?
A similary laptop was at Walmart for over $500 bucks and only have a step up processor upgrade and 8GB of ram.
This compact laptop does everything well and runs all day on a single charge.
Optical drive is included.
This is used as an all-purpose machine for school, games, internet, and carting everywhere.
The only issue is that the speakers are on the bottom and not flush on the top section where the power button is located.
To top the notebook asks passcode, which was not provided.
Additional info:  Good packaging, reasonable shipping charges and fast response from Gogetcomputers.
The issue with the NIC internet connection mentioned by others may be a non issue............. after noticing that the computer would not autodetect when rebooted I went on line and found various suggestions.
NOW we will wait to see how this fantastic computer survives for the future
I bought this unit for my 65 yr old dad after we found out the local computer store only deals in Acer computers.
Purchased it for my daughter to replace her old HP.
Has built in CD/DVD writer, wireless, web cam.
Can not find anything wrong with the computer.
Volume:  Went on Toshiba Web Site (Low Volume) their is a a way to correct the problem.
Have them Back the Unit Up w/your memory disk and let them load up any software disk, Any problem, they will back the unit.
(Their are coupon with all kinds of percent discount)that can be used to help pay for this service !!
Toshiba Satellite L655D-S5066 TruBrite 15.6-Inch Laptop (Grey/Black)TruBrite 15.6-Inch Laptop (Grey/Black)i Purchased this on 8/23/2010 and i had to return it because one of the microsoft windows root certifacte was out dated, im not Very happy because it was sent back and now im out without a laptop.
They offered to speak to Toshiba to mediate, but I decided to risk a second model.
After visiting Best Buy and other local retailers for a new computer, I am convinced that buying from Amazon.
I purchased this laptop for my wife to browse the internet, skype with her family, email, watch hulu/netflix.
Have had this laptop in use now for about 2 months.
Now use a wirelessmouse to search the internet.
Her friends were even jealous.
LA VERDAD EXCELENTE EQUIPO EN TODOS LOS SENTIDOS.
The keys also are comfortable specially with the back-light feature.
As well the proposed security system: it is aggressively standing in the middle of the screen and it takes time to get rid of it.
After recharge, the battery only work for 3 hour at the same day, or cannot work a few days later.
My grand daughter loves to play the Disney Games available online and the computer cam as she is three years old.
Have emaild and called - to now avail... the "Y" key keeps popping off and you have to hit the "N" key like 5 times before it prints.
This was a replacement for an HP DM1-z which was faulty and returned to HP.
(Bios).
In return it offers the new core-i processor which puts it on a different planet in terms of computing power.
The light weight of the included power transformer is also important for portability on long trips.
Before buying this computer look over the reviews and check to see how long any of them have had their computers up and running, I bet the vast majority were entranced (as I was) by initial impressions and would change their words should they be asked to re-evaluate.
Gave this product to my son for his birthday and high school graduation.
Peso - tamano.
I bought it late mid October 2010 and since that purchase, the price of this computer has gone up by $20.
The keyboard, each key was spacey and wiggly.
Just today the power adapter failed after 4 years of use.
Only drawback is a battery life of about 5 hrs max on high power.
I bought this nb two months ago, I am happy.
She had a compaq for five years before.
Got it from Costco and after 3.5 months the built in camera and microphone stopped working.
); and the built quality of the body.
Unfortunately, it is a business purchase and I have to live with it until the next replacement cycle.
Returned in a day.
), wobbly on the lap.
Everything has been working well during the last month.
I emailed Computer Brain (the company I bought if from off Amazon) to ask them to make it right.
So after searching for a while I finally found an email address to write to on the Acer website.
One had a stuck key ($25 fix to replace keyboard) and the other a dying battery ($36 fix).
of course i used this machine to surft the web but this computer is a must for save money on your pocketmore review after i get  my sony vega 12 basic edition and months to come thanks
The difference in speed is night and day.
Worked great for travelling and simple gaming.
Bought another laptop for girlfriend on her birthday, she wanted one with a larger screen, so she got what she wanted.
Got a great deal on this laptop, especially since the box store wanted well over $700.
for the exact same one.
The price ($525) cannot be surpassed in terms of quality to price ration.
The only real problem ( But still minor) is that it seems to have a driver issue with the audio when connected to external speakers.
However, since that was my third lemon from HP in five years, I have since done more research and I suggest that anyone who plans to buy a HP do their own research.
As consumers we should insist they do better before we buy their products.
We bought an HP laptop last year for our daughter while attending Penn State at Christmas time.
When she got to school in the fall her laptop would not work at Penn State.
We ended up being out $600 for a worthless laptop.
After 18 months of very light use, the screen went black and the computer would not boot up.
Less than 3 months after the new CPU was put in the same symptoms appeared again.
Now a second CPU and a fan (since we learned this model gets hot) and still not working.
HP shovelware can be an expected annoyance as with any new system purchased these days, usefulness of that software varies and must be purchased after their trial periods.
Removal and or disabling of said software varies from each vendor.
You be the judge:Bought an HP Pavilion dv6 series notebook new from Best Buy on 11/01/09.
Repair history:HD died and was replaced on 03/22/10.
HD died and was replaced on 05/24/10.
Integrated mouse broke 08/22/10HD died 11/12/10 - parts and laptop are out of warrantyReplacement parts have a 90 days warranty.
AWSOME was how she describe her excitement about the product.
This is after experimenting with the control panel settings.
I purchased a HP Pavilion laptop with a Windows 7 Professional operating system in March 2010.
The hard drive crashed while the system was under warranty in September 2010.
I discovered the external Seagate backup drive performed a selective backup instead of a complete backup, backing up only 18 GB out of 200 GB of data.
According to one computer repair technician, many of the files were still readable on the defective HP drive.
I then decided to replace the hard drive myself at my cost and reload the OS, only to learn that HP "tatoos" their drives preventing anyone from replacing the drive with anything other than the exact same drive from HP.
As I had already purchased a hard drive from a local "big chain" computer repair shop, I decided to obtain a new copy of Windows 7 Professional and just reload the operating system.
Since I first needed a computer with the Windows 7 operating system installed to transfer the recoverable data files from the bad drive to a good drive and then to securely erase data on the the old drive, this was not an acceptable option.
HP tech support failed miserably during this process since the HP technician (who had a heavy India English accent) told me that I had to go back to the computer store where I purchased the hard drive and have them fix the system.
They experienced the same problem in attempting to get HP to fix the laptop.
The computer has been broken now for seven weeks.
In reviewing prior laptop purchases, I realized that ALL of my prior HP laptops had broken after a year or so and that the other brands of laptops I purchased - while old and banged up from use - continued to operate.
It does not make sense: why would a company (HP) which brags that it is a "green" company produce disposable laptops whose users will throw them away into the dumpster when they break and when they learn they are not economical to upgrade or repair.
The extra line of non standard keys on the left always interfere with what we intended (caps lock, shift and Ctrl) and opens up other things instead.
I have moved on but the two friends I gave them to are still using them and they are running smoothly.
Bought this for my 18 year old sister and she was ecstatic.
Better to deal with other seller, the seller respond was late and useless.
The keyboard arrived damage and when I take it to agent, they keeped it on the rack more than one month.
When I order the laptop, I clicked on new.
So I need to get it from her to return it as soon as possible.
Thanks seller j-tech :)
very good and easy to use --IT IS NOT A GAMING MACHINE--the wife loves to use it for internet and causual gamingproblems are 1)VERY short battery life--2 hours2) gets hot fast3) did not come with a restore cd (made one as soon as it was hooked up)4) came with windows 7 (not xp) (not really a bad thing )
After making the mistake of installing McAfee (which caused all sorts of conflicts)and then uninstalling it and restoring the computer, all was great.
Then in the early days of September, a bizarre problem occured where the display starting tiling in two columns miniature images of the desktop.
And did this exchange in a week.
They arrived quickly and were in good shape.
Laptop arrived promptly.
Plan to purchase another!
Unit was shipped as stated.
I attend many meetings where the main meeting is broken up into smaller sub-meetings and this is perfect for that environment too.
My 21 year old is very particular about his computers, and he has owned MANY.
He has a top of the line desktop for college and owned a super expensive gaming computer made by Dell, which fell apart so many times I will never buy one again from that company.
Secondly, after one year of usage, the hinges began to crack......
I shopped for months before I bought the MSI GX640-260.
I only had to uninstall a couple of things (trial Norton and MS Office)before I had it configured the way I wanted it.
Documentation is entirely on a CD (no paper).
A small burble was that it came in with Vista on it, and we need XP ... after a quick call, this was revised quickly, and we are up and running.
A core i7 laptop for $1200 dollars.
Sadly 3 days before i pulled the trigger this laptop was on sale for $999.
The speakers are rather low at max volume and alsothe battery life is extremely poor (as advertised)  REASON FOR THE 4 STARS
Eventually a tech came out and replaced the mother board but the hard drive was dead again.
Over 2 weeks later they called and said they were going to replace it.
Shipping from Amazon was very fast (only 3 days).
I contacted Amazon and they emailed instruction on sending the laptop back for a refund or a new laptop, I choose to get another laptop the same one.
Greeat to do school work on and a some minor gaming!
When I went to to mouse driver settings they were grayed out but I was able to hit restore default and that corrected problems and got mouse settings ungrayed.
The unit provides almost absolute data security by ensuring that the true, valuable corporate asset (the data) remains safely inside the datacenter.
I bought this laptop back in 2008 after my roommate destroyed my Mac.
All my files are there even with the 250 gig internal drive and my external Free Agent Go drive by Seagate 320 gig.
So For about one month after the new hard drive it started to "break down" again.
Toshiba needs to redesign their hinges due to they break all the time.
This computer was described to have newly installed Microsoft Office.
Computer came with a Microsoft Office trial on it.
He sent Open Office ( a knockoff version) of Microsoft office (Which I could of just downloaded).
I ordered this laptop because I owned this brand and model five years ago when it first came out and it needed a new motherboard.
They have horrible customer service.
They lie to you, you spend countless hours on the phone with them not getting any results, you talk to people who barely speak English.
It has broken three times for major items.
The last time they replaced the motherboard.
Calling Dell, you will get a call center in India.
The India reps will try to upsell you warranty programs and anti-virus software.
It has been in use for a week now and has performed fast and flawlessly.
I purchased an HP DV6T - 3000 3 weeks ago.
They offered to resolve the issue by either having me send back the laptop by post (a 2 week turnaround) or purchase at home support cover for $130.
They refused to accept that the machine was a shoddy peice of workmanship and send someone to my home to fix it.
This happened with another computer he had.
loads and is ready to use in 40 seconds, microsoft 7 is a dream compaired to vista, would never use vista again.
However before the year was up the hard drive crashed.
After looking online, I have found that several other HP Pavilion dv6 owners have experience the same exact problem, and I am now looking into purchasing a Macbook in order to save me going through the trouble again.
had this computer 3 days now it wont start and now i have to send it in to hp witch takes 2 weeks or so to get back.
The only problem I noticed was with the Fujitsu external HD monitor (LSL 3230T, HDMI).
Since that it was crashed 4 times and HP service team replaced the mother board 4 timesStill the same issue.
Present for the wife, she loves it, specially the large screen great for social media and watching netflix on the go.
Acer AS5742-7120 15.6-Inch Laptop (Mesh Black)
Pros:Speed , Design , Handling , Screen , InterfacesTouchpad and Keyboard is very goodCons:Speaker is mono and hard to hear also with highest settings and different driversInternal mic had a lot of background noiseWorks only good with windows drivers not with realtek driversA lot of unusable software is installedMcAffe messed up windows firewall after unistallNo windows DVD .. but a reinstall partitionIf you need to reinstall you have to remove the software "gifts" againYou will need external speakers!The internal speaker is useless and really mono wired (fault by design)We sent laptop return and we will buy Acer Aspire AS5745-3428
Laptop was a Christmas gift for my high school daughter.
Took forever to ship from the company and then I had numerous emails sent before I could get a refund.
Contacted the seller and was told that I was past the 30 day return policy.
Have not head back from the seller and have been chasing this for over 3 weeks.
If it does not then be prepared for no support from the seller (I will probably take mine to Staples to see if they can fix later this week).
The Amazon vendor would not do anything with it and Acer wanted $20 for a recovery disk (no disks come with the laptop).
I have contacted acer via their online repair form and am still waiting on a responce.
the charging cord went bad in two years.
The hard drive broken in 2.5 year.
However, the original win7 came with the laptop expired because of the change of hard drive (speculated by customer service).
The CDs (4 total) do not work.
After two 3-hour chatting with customer services, they told me the CDs may be defective.
I could be better off to buy win7 from my college book store for $20, but the customer persuaded to buy their dame CD.
They told me to call during office hours to try again, whereas no phone number could be found anywhere on their website.... Gateway, the worst laptop and customer service.
Good computer until the Motherboard died at 16 months.
The only standard location key they left alone is the ESC key.
Nice response to the keyboard, nice monitor, fast processor, lovely Win7BUT DANG, who was the non-genius who put those new keys on the far left hand side?
?My suggestion:  Find a different HP (or other) laptop, where the keyboard is standard.
Has all in a small weight package.
11 month old computer stopped working after a shutdown, was told the motherboard was broken.
He said his research showed this is a common problem.
I gave it as a gift to my son who was going to begin his engineering career.
Gateway NV55C25u 15.6-Inch Laptop (Satin Black) I like the slim line  and use it at night when hubby is on the desktop one.
Having owned a Gateway laptop for the last four years, I bought this one for my 28 year old daughter for a gift.
Installed Sims 3 on it and am able to run everything on MAX and runs as smooth as it can be.
Purchased on a black friday deal for $499.
Also, the Atheros AR5B97 wireless adapter is single-band and only works on the 2.4Ghz band.
So for users that have a dual band router cannot use the 5 Ghz portion (not a big deal).
After suffering with my old desk top model for several weeks, my new lap top Acer is a dream.
Somehow the system clock got messed up after reboot.
After numerous attempts of trying (including setting the clock in BIOS setup directly), I gave up(I am a techie).
He wanted a specific computer for college.
He has had it for two months and no problems.
Built in WiFi and bluetooth allows him to do his work on the go without hassel.
Have had to send product in for warranty work four times in five months at our own expense for the same problem.
Had to return for intermittent failure of the "g" key to work.
bought this product for school work and home use.
i have also bought the protection plan and both came within a couple days.
Unfortunately, right out of the box the CD/DVD tray would not open when the proper key was hit.
I called Gateway customer support and they told me (contrary to the users manual) that the key I was pressing was to enable blue tooth and that the only wway I can open the tray is to right click on the drive from my computer and click on eject.
I called again later and this time they said that the computer is defective and I would have to return ut for repair or replacement.
Foretunately, having bought it through Amazon, I am able to return it to them and get a new laptop as replacement.
Internet is fast, loading programs is fast and it is pretty durable, regarding the constant traveling to and from school.
Ofcourse, windows 7 rocks on this computer.
The computer came as advertised - light but tough.
But the "A" key on the keyboard does not respond.
bought this a while back just now getting around to rating.
Excelente rendimiento en juegos, la conecto a mi HDTV de 37" con el cable HDMI y los juegos y pelculas corren estupendos, casi como tener una consola de juegos.
spent months searching for a similar model to this and the cheapest ones were over $800!
The BluRay drive is awesome paired with the HDMI out.
Ive been using this laptop for 4 months now and love it.
1.3mp no goodRecommend to buy a separate webcam if planning on using camera
Have owned 2 & both have the same problem.
I called up gateway and realized I have to send the laptop to repair center and they pay only one way for the shipping charges.
and the computer came in excelente condition.
I was able to solve the problem with the help of the tech department and J&R where I purchased the computer.
Within three weeks the mother board crashed and I was unable to retrieve the information that I desperately needed for my presentation.
I am in the process as we speak atgetting them to replace computer with a new one and somehow extracting information off the old harddrive and transfer to new harddrive.
bought for father in law who was too ill to sit at desk,  to use regular computer.
he died while in transit so returned item un opened when it arrived.
This unit did not work on arrival.
The average computer user will not get this item to work -- after a mystery tour of the interent (which warned against buying the product) a software upgrade was found that allowed the unit to hook up to a local wireless signal.
I went online to find out how it worked, and spent several days frustrated trying to get it to do what I wanted.
I found the company website by typing in "sylvania netbook" in a search engine.
After that, do yourself another favor and join one of the support/ user groups for this netbook (there are two that I know about, and can be found running a search for "the best way to upgrade a sylvania netbook").
The kind people in those groups can help you optimize this subnotebook with suggestions, tips, and where to find appropriae Win CE software.
I found them after spending a weekend looking for a decent wordprocessor (there is one, Softmaker, but the price is 80 dollars, which was more than what I paid for the subnotebook.
I spent 5 days trying to reach Customer Support through the phone, email and voice mail to no avail.
I have sent three emails to the company with no reply.
I would not recommend this product or the company from which I purchased it(Elextronics Expo through Amazon)  This was to be a present for my daughter, I was unable to by her another in time for Christmas.
J&R Music and Computer World sent it right a way.
I got it two day after i order it.
bought this for my wife and boy did she love it.
Also, after 2 years of using it basically EVERYDAY, the bottom started cracking from the heat and stress brought on by the hinge.
and sent her a email explaining my years loyalty to the HP brand and my displeasure with the disintegration of the plastic housing and loudness of the cooling fan.
She replied with the email address and contact number to HP Support and long story short, I sent my laptop to HP and within a week I had it back looking and performing like with a new set of keys and quieter fan, free of charge!!
It gives out tremendous heat after using it for a little while with noisy fan and then crashes.
As per poor HP support, I disassembled it and removed little dirt it had, reinstalled windows with BIOS update etc, changed my power plan settings with no luck.
I had a pavilion dv6, got some troubles but decided to try again the hp pavilions.
Well, to start, 2 months after buy it, the wired network failed.
At the end of the day, I buyied a machine that must be replaced soon.
Had to send it back twice for repair.
I bought this for my 9 year old daughter who likes to play games like Nancy Drew and the Sims on her PC..
=)
Amazon sent this as a replacement to the first laptop which had an open flap in the back.
Powerful laptop, and not very pricey (got it after a huge discount before christmas eve).
Includes two video cards, one dedicated (1 Gb DDR3) and another one integrated (288 mb shared), both switchable, so you can go integrated when running on battery, and dedicated when on AC, you decide.
After two months, begin to hard disk is damaged, later memory damage, finally computer motherboard damage, are now under maintainance.
keyboard  layout - function keys on the top changedThe F1 -- F12 keys can be changed back to traditional usage in the bios.
I rebooted to fix that but it was echoing a lot - I then realized I *may* have accidentally turned on microphone recording causing horrible echo feedback.
I also needed the keyboard light which works well.+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++UPDATE on 2/26 (after 3 weeks) :Still works well.
)- AM
We bought 2 of these (12/31/10 and 1/7/11).
Then ... both started acting wonky and each had a complete hard drive failure within 2 days of each other.
I was able to get a hard drive failure ID number for each by pushing esc as soon as I turned the machine on, then doing an HP analysis for hard drive.
HP will then send you a replacement for you to install (or you can pay $49 + tax to have a tech come out and do it).
HP will require a credit card number for collateral until you send the broken hard drive back to them.
Now, looking forward to spending a week each to reload all software and data.
HP Pavilion dv6-3150us 15.6-Inch Laptop PC - Up to 4.5 Hours of Battery Life (Argento)
My wife and I both bought one and first her screen went, then a week later my screen went.
and by the way,  it broke just after the warrenty had expired.
HP PAVILION DV6-3150USThank God this Laptop is still under warranty because it has been at HP North Carolina for the 2nd time in 6 months.
Have gone through a video card, hard drive fried, UBC Port and a few other things that have just fallen off in the process.
We did plenty of research on Consumer Reports prior to buying this, but obviously this fell through the cracks.
The laptop is home at all times, on the couch (soft surface) and never takes a beating, it is just poorly put together.
The $634 laptop computer worked wonderfully for 12 months.
On the 13th month (1 month after the warranty expired), the powercord arced and fried the motherboard.
We called HP customer service and were told that because the warranty expired a month ago, we are on our own!
Before you purchase this computer, do a little more research to find out what problems people have had with HPs as well as what problems people have had with HP customer service.
Lots of hard drive space (620GB)and 4GB RAM.
She has been using it for a year and it does everything she needs it to.
HP should have discovered this with a simple usability test.
I also bought a cute little2.4G Nano Wireless Blue Optical/light Mouse Set with Dpi Switch Black (800-1200 DPI)wireless mouse from Amazon .
However within 2 weeks of purchasing this product the wireless button on the top right hand side would not shut off.
The first time they delayed shipment till December 20th.
Basically their online support is both hard to understand (they outsource their call centers out of the USA) and unwilling to budge from a one-solution-should-fit-all mentality.
Going to back up my data just in case the drive get corrupted.
However HP shipped me old model dressed up (I ordered 8Gb memory) dm4t and tried to convince me that what I got is the same as ordered one.
The shipping list said UV499AV but the number on case of the laptop said UV440AV (dm4t-2000).
Is turned out that replacement of a wrong model will take more than month to happened - I order on June 2nd and will get replacement on July 13th eventually).
On top of that HP charged me "temporarily" extra $100 which they promised to credit back when replacement computer is shipped.
I have long experience with Sony vaio (T150, T350, E series etc) products and they are all amazing.
So my advice to everyone is to spend couple hundred more and get laptop from other vendor.
With my old laptop (dell running Win.
XP) I could send a document over my local LAN and have it printed by a printer connected to my desktop in another room of the house.
5 hours later after not receiving a return call, I again called HP support.
He continued to tell me that they were incompatible - but finally said that he could hook me up with another HP technician group that could, for $59.00 solve my problem.
I have a very hard time believing that I am the only person that has experienced this problem and I am very put out to find that after spending all the money to purchase this new laptop, that it can not perform this very simple task.
I had bought two of these computers  Amazon (first purchase) and another from Staples few days later.
Called HP and after 1 hr of trying to figure the problem they gave up and now my laptop is shipped to HP for repairs.
My other laptop from Staples ( same item #) from was worse as it developed a blue screen immediately after booting the laptop.
And Amazon should see they change their policy towards these kind of products which the customer is at no fault and compensate the customer  for the agony suffered during this ordeal.
Follow up on product - Got the laptop back from HP service and the problem persisted with the blue screen and shut off.
My daughter received this computer as a birthday gift in May.
Three months later she woke up and turn it on and there was a dead spot on the screen.
Customers Service insist that it was caused by accidentally dropping it, which is garbage and wanted to fixed it for $439.00.
HP customer service in India were very rude on the phone and when I requested that I speak to a U. S. rep I was hung up on.
Having no choice I had was forced to deal with what I got and did everything requested of me (even though I had already tried everything they were asking me to do).
After the 5th or 6th call and hours and hours of reloading and rebooting, I had to ship the laptop back for repair which is what I requested from the first phone call.
The integrated video card (Intel HD) was bad.
HP Pavilion dm4-1160us 14-Inch Laptop PC - Up to 6.25 Hours of Battery Life (Argento)
The notebook worked OK until its monitor cracked after 1.5 year.
Have to buy a replacement online.
I recently purchased an HP Pavilion laptop computer, mod dm4-1160us from Amazon.
The price was good, $650, however it did not come with a full Microsoft office (that included Power point and Outlook).
I had to spend an extra $150 (with discount card) for the software I purchased from a guy in India (efficient and polite).
The new internet explorer is more designed for kids who are into all the social networking crap and playing moronic games.
The screen cracked spontaneously four months later.
HP refused to back their product.
(By the way, if you call for support, the HP Call Center is in India - they just read a script that repeats company policy - pathetic!)
I had removed the Norton antivirus which came with the laptop for an year and replaced with Microsoft Security Essentials which is a free software.
The laptop comes in a very protected box.
After two months of light use, the hard drive crashed.
The computer technician said that this problem is very similar to one that HP had on another model a couple of years ago - overheating, crashing, corrupting.
HP should have pulled these from the market long ago but of course, all they care about is $$$$$$.
(Not an easy looking repair btw).
The system runs too hot while using and the power chord  has broken.
There is an electrical problem which forces the computer to randomly shut down (other customers have been told it is related to over heating).
After looking up multiple potential ways to fix, I became aware the there are a LOT of people with HP laptops (a multitude of different HP laptops) that all have the same set of problems, including faulty/easy to break powercords.
The only reason this unit got 4 instead of 5 stars was because they put both the up and down arrow keys on one key.
I sent the computer back for a refund.
After a couple months, though, the battery life went from 5 hours to just under one, and then soon it would shut off within 10 seconds of being unplugged.
My office staff love it as they need to move it to different places in the office.
Our $634 HP DV6 laptop computer worked wonderfully for 12 months.
On the 13th month (1 month after the warranty expired), the powercord arced and fried the motherboard.
We called HP customer service and were told that because the warranty expired a month ago, we are on our own!
Before you purchase this computer, do a little more research to find out what problems people have had with HPs as well as what problems people have had with HP customer service.
I`m currently in Brazil and I took the machine to a technician and he didn`t want to open it and said that some of the HP Pavillion Dv`s series came out with that problem.
After 9 months of tolerated malfunctions i am returning to Amazon & I am purchasing an ASUS.
Purchased this through my college bookstore which had a link to HP offering discounts for products bought from their website for college students.
Was treated quite well during its SHORT life... Just decides to stop booting up (would turn on and "cap locks" LED on said button continues to flash)...
Of course they mention about CPU fan/vents being clogged & dirty (My PC was absoultely clean inside throughout) Not an issue here.. Used it for awhile during the day..
Went to use it the next day, same problem... Decided to open up the laptop to try and troubleshoot, which I have electronics background (BIG MISTAKE)!!!
They make these things so cheaply (and charge you top $$ to buy!)
The CMOS batteries inside these are no name brands that die in no time, then you loose your BIOS then you are stuck-we consumers are suckers!...$500+ for about a 1-1/2 years of use...
All these small devices made are junk, but the powers that be, plant into our heads that we need to have them.. Sure, I could have just sent it to a computer store, but I can take that money and put it towards another new one (that hopefully will last longer?)
I bought this Laptop as an Anniversary gift for my wife, as a replacement for her six year old Acer Laptop.
She uses it for Internet browsing, storing and editing Photos (she takes wedding pictures), managing her iTunes music, and playing WORLD OF WARCRAFT on occasion.
I ordered this computer for a family member because I was getting it at a cheap price on amazon $529.00 .
However the computer runs and operates very smooth.
Poor support, poor engineering, poor company.
follow the instructions when first starting.
Primary function is to record television and surf the web via a wireless connection.
Hard to find another Windows 7 now that 8 is out.
Making a comment on the amazon site did not help.
This has been a workhorse laptop for my daughter for the latter part of high school, but died after 2 years.
Then restart and try to recover your data.
I ended up taking out the hard drive and copying the data with a SATA external hard drive kit to a new Toshiba laptop.
I bought it at Staples for $424 after rebate and the 100 dollars they knocked off when I traded in my old laptop.
Further tip if you are a college student wanting to get the most out of windows software you should order college edition of Microsoft Office 2010 it will give you all the office software for professional at a home edition price.
After I sent an email to the seller, tehy did not helped me and they told me to use the guarantee, I sent a complain to amazon and dinot work after months and months they havenot do antyhing to help me and the computer is useless.
They have been wanting a computer for a long time>  It was a surprise Christmas gift.
Also, I went through four charger cords in only three years.
After about 6 more months the external monitor quit reacting.
After 3 months, the keyboard was malfunctioning and so HP replaced it for free (as it was under warranty) and even have me a new battery.
The customer service was excellent and they had the laptop fixed in about 4 days after I got the package to ship it to them in.
The reason this laptop was purchased is because we had an exact same model that the mother board went out on.
we were able to install our hard drive in this replacement and be back in business again.
This opinion is about the articleHP G62-340us 15.6-Inch Laptop PC - Up to 4 Hours of Battery Life (Charcoal), which purchased for my daughter at amazon product was shipped to my locker at the scheduled date and I received in my country last month in perfect state my daughter is very happy with the product works great.
HP G62-340us 15.6-Inch Laptop PC - Up to 4 Hours of Battery Life (Charcoal)HP G62-340us 15.6-Inch Laptop PC - Up to 4 Hours of Battery Life (Charcoal)
Virus necessitated a reinstall using five Recovery Disks.
A week of waiting for HP to send factory recovery disk.
I have had this laptop for 4 years now, I am now researching and looking to buy a new one.
After the Sony Vaio laptop was broken, so my daughter need to have very quick a new one, I find this one at Amazon and talk with the customer service on the phone, was very good, than two days delivery I just got the laptop and happy.
My daughter love her new laptop and can do now her online High School again.
Loved that one but it start falling apart so traded it in for new G62.
Pretty fast for regular tasks (office/web)Web cam, card reader, HDMI.
Edit: Another con: A lot of "crapware" to remove from the start, no option to recover clean OS.
Bought mine from Office Depot.
Does anyone know how to remove the Wild Tangent game software from HP machines?
Desconecta inmediantemente la funcin Aero y las transparencias, aplica el Ccleaner frecuentemente y no instales muchos software pesado, esto garantizar mantenerse como cuando la compraste.
We recently got the computer because our dell broke (TAKE IT FROM SOMEONE WHO KNOWS NEVER BUY A DELL.
But after installing windows updates, most problems evaporated.
The scroll down function on the touch pad with two fingers either seems to funtion undersensitively  (not working) or suddenly becomes oversensitive and jumps way down the page.
Given the price (I bought at Office Max for under $700 with the 6g processor and the 750 hard drive) I think I did well compared to the Apple laptops of the same size and capacity.
Monitor died, battery stopped charging, then it stopped booting.
Go with dell from now on.
I cannot really complain until just two days ago when the wireless networking switch stopped working.
I went through all the troubleshooting techniques recommended online and sent a online help request two days ago and still have not heard back from Asus.
My wife had Toshiba laptops in the past and always enjoyed them (prior to switching to a Macbook).
Bought this as a gift for my sister  to replace her aging laptop It is a great deal for the money
My daughter bought one at Walmart, and it came with Microsoft Office.
She has a word processor, spreadsheet, data base, and other utilities.
Mine has an attitude; I went online and the microsoft update site says the bare-bones Microsoft software needed to be repaired and updated.
Compaq Presario CQ56-110US 15.6-Inch Laptop PC - Up to 4.15 Hours of Battery Life (Black)
This was a christmas gift for my 17 year old daughter and it is everything she needs for school and more.
The outside helps not to leave fingerprints.
Pros:*works well (been 4 months and no faults)*Windows 7 home premium 64-bit*enough USB drives*not to heavy*great cooling system*quickkeys on the left side of the keyboard(calculator, print, internet, DVD, and windowslive mail)*lock button*nice 250GB hardrivecons:*The keyboard layout is dif from other computers*the use the f1-f12 buttons requires you to presss the fn button then the f key (if you want to  refresh a webpage, you have to hit fn+f5, not just f5.
(replacements and other batteries to increase teh life will be expensive)*the hard drive is not like regular hardrives.
instead of being directly connected to the computer, it has a wire connected to it, and then to another port.
Bought one for my sister about a year ago.
Key Feature: built-in number pad (unusual for laptops).
As I am moving the mouse within a webpage such as the Denver Post site, it randomly opens ads they have embedded in the page.
There is a designated scroll location at the right hand side of the touchpad.
When typing emails in Gmail, or using an Excel spreadsheet or Word document - the cursor randomly and suddenly repositions itself at another location within the page.
NOW, almost 2 years later, a computer geek figured out what Lenovo has been doing wrong for 4 years or longer and figured out how to make-shift repair it.
Well, it has been dead since it was 3 months old anyhow.
Worst customer service in the world.
l wanted to refund but l was busy now l am using.
l bougt 2nd toshiba.
After spending too much time trying to get the settings right I decided to purchase a wireless mouse.
She has been waiting for a new laptop for over a year and was ecstatic to receive this one.
The screen is clear and crisp, the keypad is comfortable (she had to get used to the flat keys but that took all of a day) and she loves the 10 key.
It connects quickly and is very stable when running on AC, but network connection is dropped whenever changing to battery power.
Of course, they owed me a return or refund, but it was less hassle to fix the problem at home,(Cost $70.00).
Computer is fast, reliable, and comes with great software to help use it.
However, when it arrived, the keyboard stuck constantly.
The hard drive failed after one month.
It worked well for another five months, then began doing strange things on the keyboard.
I noticed that when on battery only (not plugged into the charger) the Wifi signal would go off.
The 17 inch screen is a nice way to watch a personally DVD :-)
i am highly upset about it because it is one of the important features i searched MONTHS for in a laptop....... smh now i have to go thru the process of returns, waiting for my refund and ordering a whole other laptop.
This is a perfect computer for wifi and internet access.
EL PUNTO NEGATIVO QUE LE HE ENCONTRADO SON LAS CORNETAS QUE A MI JUICIO SUENAN MUY BAJO.
I bought this computer for my wife, so she could do her thing (e-mail, facebook, and such) and have her own computer.
b) On the notebook, it has great speed & live up to the expectation of a Intel Core-i5 processor.
Another 10-15s to fully boot up & launch my IE to the home page.
But I did use it one of the night surfing the internet (reading news) for over 4 hours & the battery still showed that there was another 2 hours of battery left.
I love the look, portability, and battery life (I get 5-6 hours when doing e-mails and word processing).
I did notice several trial programs installed that I manually uninstalled including Norton & Office 2010.
(about 2 1/2 hours from 5% to 100 % charge).
The youngest has a white 13" one about two years old.
The other two have 6 month old silver Macbooks also 13".
I took over a couple of hours testing them using different applications (Internet , games ect...) No doubt about it.
Whats neat is that you can turn the optical drive (DVD, CD player) off which saves you a ton of battery life.
For the first six months it worked out although access to the internet was much slower than my other computers that ran on the same network.
Another annoying thing about Toshiba is that they are constantly trying to sell you their products or Norton Anti Virus.
The laptop began crashing in fall and Toshiba reps tried to fix it online by erasing everything on the hard drive and then proceeding again.
However the fixes offered by Toshiba did not work and now after the warranty period has expired they want me to mail it at a cost of approximately $ 100 to get a new hard drive.
The one year warranty they enforce to the day.
As stated in other reviews of the R705 series (search Amazon), mine has also developed cracks in the bezel on both sides just under the rubber bumpers.
So if your plan is to travel with your laptop, the R705 may not be up to the task.
Moreover Toshiba service is terrible, some times they send the laptop back as such - but in the service records they say they changed parts and tested the system.
After searching for more info, I concluded the sound exists when I run Firefox.
I set mine up for dual booting with Ubuntu 10.10 immediately and have not spent much time on the Windows 7 side.
Debo decir que nunca habia tenido una computadora Toshiba, de las 5 que en los 7 anos anteriores habia tenido mi encanto se habia quedado con la Gateway y con una Vaio de 15" de hace 7 anos (GR-370) pero esta borra a las que anteriormente tenian la categoria de la computadora de mis encantos.
Someone fell asleep on the job.
I had to send it back to the manufacturer to replace the hard drive and then they sent it back without installing the Windows Operating System.
They claim that now you must make your own "recovery disk" and if you do not you must buy one from them.
The computer stopped working just one week after purchase.
To save down time I took it to a local repair center.
They found one of the two ram (2gb) cards was bad.
I called Toshiba for a replacement ram card, only to be told I must send the computer in to them, and because it is near Christmas it could be 4-5 weeks.
My Toshiba Satellite crashed 5 times within the first year, each time Toshiba states they replaced the hard drive.
Once for the hard drive inexplicably dying, and FIVE TIMES for the back light of the screen going out.
When I call back, they tell me to send it in again to a "newer, better repair facility" that (again) fails to fix it.
They refuse to let you speak to a manager or offer you any other recompense besides continuously sending it in for the same repair.
He has been getting 5 to 7 hours on the battery, with no problems.
When we got it home, within 30 days we had to take it to a company that worked with Toshiba to have it repaired.
After that, we had to send it back to Toshiba 2 times before it was "fixed".
Three months after the warrenty expired the motherboard blew.
I called ShopNBC to complain about the computer and although they (ShopNBC) were not responsible, they(ShopNBC) gave me a credit towards any future products I purchased from them (ShopNBC).
They are somewhere in India and not only do they not speak clear english, THEY ARE VERY, VERY, VERY, VERY RUDE.
Now we are stuck with a $800 computer that will cost $750 to repair.
To all small business starters and/or owners, STAY AWAY FROM TOSHIBA.
Purchased this unit for my son in college, and he loves it.
Loved it so well, my girlfriend purchased the exact same one for her personal use.
We have found this to be a great starter for our daughter as she begins her college education.
It is perfect for a home computer,using the internet,photos and music ect.
Dead on arrival.
Toshiba Satellite A665D-S6096 TruBrite LED 16-Inch Laptop (Black) (Personal Computers)I PURCHASED THIS Toshiba Satellite A665D-S6096 TruBrite LED 16-Inch Laptop ON 12/15/2010 AFTER READING CONSUMER REPORTS,WOW WHAT A DEAL THIS COMPUTER IS, THIS IS MY FIRST TOSHIBA LAPTOP.
I DID UP GRADE MINE WITH SIX 1/4 INCH RUBBER FEET TO RAISE IT UP FOR BETTER AIR CIRCULATION ON A HARD SURFACE ,AND IT SEEM TO HELP.
AND ALSO PLACED TWO CLEAR RUBBER BUMPERS ON THE LID FRONT TO ALLOW FOR EASY LID OPENING.
ALSO PLACED SOME 1/4 INCH RUBBER FEET ON THE ROUTER BOTTOM FOR BETTER AIR CIRCULATION SINCE THE COOLING FAN IS ON THE BOTTOM.
After two tries with Toshibas help line I was told to send it in.
***Update*** after searchinng on the internet for possible solutions and reading the comments on this post, the best solution was to update the driver on the Realtek wireless adapter.
The back lighted keyboard is especially helpful for those of us who never learned to type properly and allows accurate "hunt and peck" input to the computer.
I bought this for my daughter after getting one for my son for his birthday and one for myself for my birthday.
He is very happy with his gift.
this is a perfect take along gaming machine for those uf you on the go who want the power from home.
Today when i tried to start the computer a black screen came up with the message "operating system not found".
Bought this for my son who is a college student who also enjoys online gaming.
Zero issues after a few weeks of ownership.
Ya cant go wrong with a Toshiba... they were there in the beginning when the laptop story begun and still here now...
As of now it turns off after 15 seconds and only turns back on when I hit a key.
Would buy again, & would twist the arm of a friend looking for a laptop to buy this one.
Within a month the power cable was shorting and by 3 months several of the keys on both the number pad  and the keypad are no longer working.
The numlock key is perpetually on - the light cannot come off.
The web cam has already come in helpful since I am away from home alot and we can chat for free.
When you open some programs while you listen to music, the audio gets cluttered!
Well... a guess the computer is OK, all of the computers you buy on these days is going to b goog for basic stuff, internet, email, web surfing you know... common stuff.
My sister and niece are very happy with their Toshiba Satellite.
Purchase on December 15, 2010, still have it working it very hard to until around jan 2012 the keyboard finally need to change reason some keys refuse to type.
Toshiba Satellite L645D-S4058 14-Inch LED Laptop (Fusion Finish in Helios Grey)
My laptop went back to the manufacturer, twice, for repairs which included a new hard drive, keyboard, and other items essential to keeping a computer working properly.
This is a 700 dollars laptop sold at best buy.
Had free virus protection for 30 days.
I purchased this for my daughter after her four year old Dell crashed.
This Toshiba arrived very quickly, has Windows 7 and is fast and efficient.
While she is not a gamer, the computer works well for Netflix, etc and all her work needs.
This laptop is very fast and meets all my PC needs as a College Student; while also being useful for a moderate amount of gaming, and home and business related tasks.
The original Realtek Driver (version 1002.2.428.2010, dated 4-28-2010), was causing the wireless connection to continually connect and disconnect.
I looked on the Toshiba download web page for the M645-S4061 computer but only an older update was listed... so I went to the Realtek web site and found a new driver for the Realtek RTL8188CE Wireless LAN 802 11n PCE NICRealtek Driver Update (88ce_92ce_WindowsDriver) Version 1005.12.0105.2011,  dated 1-3-2011.
After installing the new Driver, the wireless connection problem was solved.
But there are just two USB ports located on the left side of the computer.
Purchased for $599.99, free shipping, in December 2010.
Original hard drive crashed in July 2012 (lasted 16 months).
Toshiba charged $238.73 to replace hard drive in August, 2012.
New hard drive crashed in July 2013 (lasted 11 months).
Toshiba repair and Toshiba customer relations both said "repair warranty is 90 days, nothing we can do.
"Looking for another lap-top now.
Toshiba used a Seagate "Certified Repaired HDD" when they replaced the hard drive in August, 2012, instead of a new hard drive.
Just bought this couple of weeks ago.
Just bought this couple of weeks ago.
For the Wifi issue which is mentioned above we just need to download the new realtek driver fron their site and the issue stopped happening.
they have sent me a new one in a day but the new one also had the same problem and now i have returned them  both and getting a refund.
I have seen the buy to replace my old toschiba who already had years with her .. until now I love my new laptop.
This one is to replace a Dell laptop purchased two years ago and continues to have issue with battery not charging.
Backlight in the Toshiba name plate and other areas is a nice touch.
very happy;)
The laptop does NOT have a Blu Ray drive, it is a "regular" DVD drive.
Computer died twice.
The second reason to get this laptop is its powerful system built for gaming needs runs all graphics intense games on the market with ease has the new 1.5 gb graphics card and the i7 processor both of these combine to be able to meet gaming needs for years to come.
Hope Toshiba will continue to make hy standard lt in the future .
The first screen was damaged within a week of ownership because the bumpers that protect the screen were sculpted a bit short and the screen was caused to press against the bottom of the keyboard when closed.
However, the splotching problem is totally unacceptable.2) Side KeysThe side keys are easily pressed accidentally, which typically will minimize whatever window you are in and send you to your desktop.
Ian FilsonUniversity of Pittsburgh, School of Law
I have also gotten a high end notebook (over $3000) which I returned (due to broken screw set at the bottom of laptop after I have received it and other issues) and came down to this one.
Since I do not want to deal with the Asus key issue (although I have been building PC with their motherboard), I gave this one a try and here is what I found.
Windows 7 HomeI am still in the process of downloading and trying to upgrade to Windows 7 PRO/ULITMATE.
The product came with a stuck pixel on arrival.
Toshiba Satellite A665-3DV5 15.6-Inch LED Laptop (Fusion X2 Finish in Charcoal)is excellente product, funtastic to video, entertaiment and game.
I just bought this laptop and was about to return it after spending hours on the phone with toshiba and them being unable to figure out what was wrong with the laptop.
The corel Win DVD 3d needs to be downloaded from the site.
There is a newer model available, but the chip was instantly recalled(stonebridge?).
after 3 months of owning this laptop, I had to send it in to Toshiba because the Hard Drive failed.
I bought this laptop three days ago, I thought it was going to be great as soon as i opened it.
It went in this order: power on, does not work, turn off, power on, does not work, turn off, power on, does not work, power on, finally boots correctly.
This happened three times on the third day.
Still learning all the new functions this unit has over our desktop Gateway.
(There are two other Toshiba laptops in the house, and neither has a problem.)
I have made 12 calls to Toshiba customer service, and finally got them to agree to service the computer, which is under warranty.
They were able to replicate the problem; they updated the bios, restored the original software, and sent back the laptop unrepaired.
Not have a recovery function on bootup, you must use DVDs to bcakup the recovery data.
Owned for 15 months.
Time to go to the repair shop, ahve them open it up and fix it!
When id turn it on sometimes it would start to do some random test and itd say some of the files were corrupt!
Runs very quickly and i have tested so far, left 4 dead / killing floor on max without any lag.
After one day of use, the evaluation of a Toshiba utility classified it as FAIR.
Bought this last year for my daughter for college.
I actually spent a lot of time looking around for a laptop including buying several and returning them a few days later.
Had major hardware problem sent off to repair center turnaround in ten days all fixed.
I searched in the Toshiba web site and I discovered the A665-S6094 model.
The Toshiba Satellite A665-S6092 from Amazon.
com does NOT come with the new 1GB NVIDIA GeForce GT 420M graphics processor as advertised on Amazon.
Toshiba Satellite A665-S6092 16.0-Inch LED Laptop (Fusion X2 Finish in Charcoal)
The Toshiba Satellite A665-S6092 from Amazon.
com does NOT come with the new 1GB NVIDIA GeForce GT 420M graphics processor as advertised on Amazon.
I am happy that I chose his findings as it has a blue ray disk player included which is  costing almost $100 in other manufacturers.
The scroll for webpages on the right hand side of the touchpad has a severe lag.
!Acer AS5745G-7671 15.6-Inch Laptop - Black
When we upgrade hers, We will definetly go with the ACER.
Read reviews and ordered Amazon one day shipping.
Everything followed FedEx Tracking.
I purchased this computer in Dec ... my third Acer in a year -  and I am thrilled with all of them.... this one developed a problem with the monitor after about four weeks.
I called, paid shipping TO Acer, and had the repaired unit back on my desk in 11 days (including two weekends and a holiday !
I am unable to view a computer at the store as I am out of the country.
)Other features include 4 USB jacks, a monitor output, a network jack (along with a fine built in 802.11b/g/n wireless connection), Multi-Gesture Touchpad, 4 gigs of RAM, a Dual-Core Processor and Windows 7.
Additional goodies include a built in web cam and mike.
I HAVE ORDER THIS LAPTOPOperating system Genuine Windows 7 Home Premium 64-bitProcessor Intel Core2 Duo Processor T6600Processor speed 2.20GHzMemory 4096MB DDR2 System Memory (2 Dimm); max.
supported=8192MBAccessible memory slots 2Display 17.3" Diagonal HD+ High-Definition HP LED BrightViewWidescreen Display (1600 x 900)Video graphics Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 4500MHD(shared) with up to 1759MB total available graphics memoryAudio Altec LansingPrimary CD/DVD drive LightScribe SuperMulti 8x DVDR/RW withDouble Layer SupportHard drive 320GB(5400RPM) Hard Drive(SATA)Networking Integrated 10/100Base-T Ethernet LAN(RJ-45 connector)Wireless options Intel WiFi Link 1000BGNPC card slot N/AI/O ports 3 Universal Serial Bus(USB) 2.0; 1 Headphone out; 1microphone-in; 1 HDMI; 1 VGA(15-pin); 1 RJ-11(modem); 1 RJ -45(LAN)WHEN I GOT THE LAPTOP IT WAS A CELERON PROCESSOR...
It has crashed 2 times and now its in a package on its way to acer repair center.
windows 7 crashed.
After much reviewing I decided to purchase the Acer AS7551G-6477.
Also, by the tme I decided to buy, the price had dropped to below $550.00.
Update at $533 this is now a great buy.
The laptop plays Left4Dead2 and TF2 maxed out (~45 fps on L4D2 maxed) while staying quiet and cool.
are excellen proice, quiality Acer AS7745G-9823 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black) Acer AS7745G-9823 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black)
Go get one now !
the external sound adjustment wheel aslo started working wierd recently.
I am an adult who has gone back to school.
I use a PC at home for my business and use the netbook strictly for school (although I have used it to store a great deal of RAW photos from time to time without a problem).
I have ordered for the Laptop on 17th Nov 2010 by one day shipping.
Now they are not responding.
Ordered one mouse from Amazon in one day shipping today (01/05/11).
After looking at netbooks this seemed to be a sensible bet.
Received product but immediately on start up the unit sent a message saying cannot connect to webcam.
After checking and updating and driver and two calls to toshiba tech help it was obviously a malfunctioning machine (duff  budgie).
Lost 48 dollars on deal due to terms and conditions (not suppliers fault).
Toshiba have ignored my e-mails as to what they propose to do (nothing?)
I have been wanting this hp touchsmart for years and finally decided to break down and just buy it.
I ordered this computer for my wife to use while she is going to college.
Swivels back to the other side of the bar (customer side) to function as a PC.
I had my sister bought this unit several months ago through Amazon, up to now it is still not working right.
The first time the screen went black, so I had to ask for a return number which I did get, yet I had to buy another computer while hooking up the bad one to another monitor to be able to work while the new one arrived.
The seller advertised that the computer had windows 7 operating system, when it was actually running windows server 2008 and the hard drive was completely full I had to wipe it completely and now have to buy my own edition of windows not a happy camper.
Have to say, "Way to go Gateway".
Keep the original 500GB drive in a safe place if you ever plan on reusing it in the future, or if you want the comfort of knowing you have the original factory boot drive.
Time in use: 5 months.
Apps in use: firefox, itunes, office, photoshop, premiere.
I replaced the harddrive with a SSD drive (good instructions can be found previously posted by other reviewers).
So made it an "ultrabook" (well, sorta)  with just a  $150 SSD and a $17 CD with transfer cable.
Took under 60min total time (and the old hard drive went into an $8 external drive shell so it now serves as the backup for the laptop!
(I added some velcro strips to the back of the laptop, then to the inside case - I work with the laptop always in the case.
The velcro insures the case stays with the laptop, even on the way down to the floor).
For daily business, it is ok.
And for once, a battery life as advertised!
Now how many systems can claim that!
My real issue is that after getting the laptop back from the pixels issue, less than two days later more pixels died.
Then, over the holidays it was on sale.
After that the cord felt very loose in the jack opening which is located on one end of the display hinge and the power button is on the other end glowing in various colors to reflect the state of the computer.
My daughter came home for Christmas and showed me her new laptop--the same model as mine which she bought based on my initial impression.
I cautioned her about my problem and when I examined her computer I saw cracks in the plastic around the charging connection and two days later she was in tears because her $1400 purchase was falling apart after three weeks of use.
I have found other users online who claim Sony will not replace this part (which clearly is poorly designed and cheaply made as my sample of two indicates) because Sony claims the damage is caused by the user.
The connection in question was metal on the earlier versions.
A good, dependable machine and a nice break from the typical big chain computer brands.
).
Samsung knows what they are doing1
Not impressed battery time - around 3 hoursI bought it $670.
Just got my new laptop, bought it for $649.99 :) and got it with a free two day shipping, cannot be happier with the product!There is something on my mind that I am not sure of, it says that it comes with Nvidia 310m Optimus Technology, however, I cannot seem to find this "Nvidia 310m"...
i ebay, i wiki, i amazon, i google, and i do some field interviews and browsing (at employees from and at stores like walmart, best buy, computer repair shops...  etc) before i settle down on any product/merchandise that is considered an investment.
i was lucky enough to get this computer on amazon used for 600 (now adays it may hover around 500 dollars used).
yes, i am jealous of my step-sons new computer; but i rest easy knowing that i got him something that he can take with him and will find invaluable when he decides to move on to college life and what not.
When I first turned on the computer a screen appears saying that the system is unable to load Windows due to prior software / hardware removal.
The heat management is amazing.
Hard drive suddenly died.
I have started using this laptop for 6 month, I travel 4 hours a day in train, The battery life sucks, with tether blackberry, In a half trip, i am low on battery,So I tried to find extra battery online, and bad news!!!!
no one carries battery for Q430, so finally i called samsung and they send me a link to buy battery, which is another 130 bucks i have to spend to travel 4 hours a day.
I like the island keyboard these days (I only liked thinkpad keyboards) before this.
The ordering of CTRL and FN keys is messed up.
They are in the same order on the left side of the keyboard as on the right said of the keyboard.
When I was shopping for laptops for school about a month ago, I stumbled upon this Samsung Q430 14-inch notebook.
I decided to buy this unit due to the only review being negative.
The first one, after 5 months of usage, had a keyboard failure, which Sony could not fix; so after 1 month of waiting they replaced the laptop (with an identical one).
The replacement laptop (brand new) failed after 3 weeks of usage - this time the display went out.
Horrible in-store customer "service".
bought it at wal-mart a few years back before christmas for under 500.00. flawless operation.
the hard drive crashed after 2 months and has been in the process of being repaired for the last four months, poor communication and very poor customer service.
Sony is getting rid of Laptop industry.
also they have the worst customer service ever.
I had to send it back to Sony within a month because it stopped working!
Saving up my money to get a Mac after this crap!
A force restart was needed to power down the laptop.
Had some problems (software) because it is a UK product.
Perfect for day to day tasks.
However, we had two stiicks of 1 gig Ram on hand.
got it right when they said i would, opened it up and turned it on, connects to wifi immediately... perfect laptop for college students or high school students for papers and such... not alot of memory, but i have an external hard drive for that.... highly recommended!
The laptop worked fine for one month, then the screen showed black blames in the left side, the problem disappear for two months.
Finally I had problems with SSD disk and tried to use the recovery system and it came with a problem and when the system is being restored on the 70% it show an error.
Note this is a 3 YEAR OLD computer.
I am now stuck with this laptop as they refuse to take it back without a 50% restocking fee.
It is nice, purchased at staples for $520 (it was a brand new clearence item), check your local stores, you may get lucky and find one if they still have it (give them the 6 digit # 906418, thats how they find the computer in their system).
Audio is some of the best ive heard from an out of the box unit.
It has been through two hard drives, countless trips to the shop for updates, reloads, operating systems, etc.
Be warned and spend half the money on any other brand which is twice the product.
I switched from Macbook pro (2010 model) to the 1920x1080 model of this notebook.
S&H; as per Feb-2011, and the seller said its (Brand New), there was NO Mention that its a Microsoft Signature laptop in the Seller Description, I received it after lots of Delay, and when I finally did, it was full of Scratch marks on the LID, and many signs of abuse.
When we ordered this computer, it arrived 4 days later.
Only problem that always exists: when opet Adobe Reader (or Adobe Acrobat) wiht 2 or more documents, program make problem with Graphic driver.
Unfortunately, seller did not include that the fax modem port is plugged up (maybe not supported by a 32 bit Win 7 Home Premium O/S installed on it?).
This, along with the fact that a business computer installed with Home Premium instead of win 7 Professional and only had 2 gigs of ram installed ( requiring a memory upgrade if you want to replace the 32 bit o/s with a 64 bit o/s) did put a minor blemish on the deal.
I hated turning it in when I retired and I am trying to find a good deal on one from a reliable vendor for my personal use.
I had it daily use for over two years and also traveled with it.
After 30 days from the purchase date, I noticed the computer would shut down for no apparent reason when on battery power.
When I called Dell they were familiar with the problem and stated it must be sent in to replace the bottom and battery.
I sent it in and got it back in 10 business days as promised.
The technician arrived and was shaking.
Long story short, he bent the keyboard on removal, and when the machine was reassembled it did not boot up.
The tech said the mother board was bad.
I requested they send out a new replacement machine.
They agreed but stated it would be 2 to 3 weeks.
I asked for a supervisor who cleverly stated the machine would arrive in about 10 business days which is, realistically, the same thing.
Thankfully after calling Amazon, they worked out a satisfactory resolution.
bought a dell 12-18-10. it crashed 12-20-10. sent back 12-23-10 with tracking confirmation.
they keep giving excuses but no money back.
Pasted below is spec from page I ordered:Intel Core i5-480M Processor (2.66GHz, Turbo Boost up to 2.93GHz, 3MB Cache)6GB Shared Dual Channel DDR3 SDRAM at 1333MHz (2 DIMMs- 1 x 2GB, 1 x 4GB)640GB 5400RPM SATA Hard Drive; 8X DVD+/-RW Drive15.6-inch Widescreen HD (1366x768) glossy WLED display with TrueLife Panel; Intel HD GraphicsGenuine Windows 7 Home Premium (64-bit); Intel Centrino Wireless-N 1000I received i3 with 4GB memory.
These are the 2 negativesGood purchase for something aroound 600 $
After putting up with it, the screen just died last night.
Dell offers more powerfull configurations (i3, i5, i7) for more money, and you can get the base model of this laptop for 599 a limited time.
As a former Alienware Tech Support rep, I knew what to expect from the computer I was buying, and knowing the company and its products was one of the reasons why I decided to buy this laptop.
and switching the gpu to save battery life is incredible.
The first shipment arrived, but the computer died after only a few weeks.
Then the keyboard started acting up, some keys periodically not working & others not working at all.
I took it apart & found the ribbon cable port on the circuit board was broken so the cable was held in place by a piece of cellophane tape.
I figure the computer had been returned & someone taped the cable & sold as a new computer.
- no3 stars for being overpriced by at least 400$
It has only been turned of twice,  once to install RAM, and then a couple weeks later to install an new SSD.
They underclocked and undervolted the GPU.
also saw on Amazon just days after receiving mine theat this laptop was not being sold through Amazon anymore (which is where I got mine) until they resolved some issues that people were having with it.
Wouldve gotten this one (HP Envy) through Costco also, but they didnt have it.
trackpad has multitouch features but they are also not working well and are years behind apple.
however 3 screen multimonitor gaming on medium settings is laggy...(playing lock on flight simulator)integrated webcam is stunning!
Aesthetically it`s a nice machine to look at to, then again if you`re very concerned with aesthetics, go spend the extra $500 and go get a mac and quit your crying.
This is a follow up review - 2 years after purchase.
The Sony Vaio VPCEE32FX/BJ 15.5 LED, AMD Athlon II Dual Core P340 (2.20GHz), 4GB DDR3 RAM, 320GB Hard Drive, Windows 7 is a good laptop except for the Windows 7 (it sucks - Microsoft wants to run your computer their way and not yours).
The computer comes with Office 2010 installed and there is no way to uninstall or delete it (there goes 10 gig of your hard drive).
This is a review for the VPCZ11CGX, which is similar to the model available on amazon.
Stats: Intel Core(tm) i5-540M processor (2.53GHz) with Intel Turbo Boost technology up to (3.06GHz), 4GB RAM, 256GB SSD, Wi-Fi : Intel Centrino Advanced-N 6200 (802.11a/b/g/n).
13.1" widescreen, backlit keyboard, 3.04lb (including standard battery).
I also have a 20" LED LG monitor (e2050T) that connects via the HDMI cable (HDMI to VGA), which offers a nice break from the small 13.1" screen.
:)
Have many other friends with broken MacBooks, will certainly deal with these guys first
Arrived on time, safely packaged, and dropped right in!
:)
Surprising software, including spyware, works right out of the box.
Needed a pc for taking college courses online.
The battery had to be replaced with in one month of use.
I have had this computer for 18 months now (got it in December 2010).
Mine always has run hot (70+C) and has shut off from overheating probably once a month or so.
My Toshiba laptop is now 1 year and 4 months old.
The HDD went out in about a year, after the warranty expired (bought it about a year ago).
Just as the ad advertised... paid 650 for i5 proc and all the other bells and whistles!
In only two days, the product arrived in my home.
Boots in seconds & plenty of power for around a total of $900.
this computer was a gift for my girlfriend, and she is happy with it.
And the 17.3" monitor is bright.
Great computer for a teenager who is starting to use computers.
The laptop started giving problems as soon as it got out of warranty.
I got the entire package for $700 + tax from a store.
When I tried to install the software using the Software Key,I discovered that the key was for Windows--not Office.
So, I ended up having to purchase the software for an additional $135.
Soon after, the hinge area cracked on the front and back of the screen casing, leading to the hinge cover falling off.
Now the bottom left corner is completely separated from the rest of the computer minus the wiring, which is now under stress and threatening to break.
This leads to tired hands very quickly.
A couple months before the warranty ended, the sound card went out.
I got this unit in Northern Minnesota in just 3 days, (Standard shipping) but it was damaged in shipment.
They claimed a "foreign substance" was found in the display.
the unit looked brand new.
I agree with previous reviewer that it may not use as a work station ( I still rely on 14"Dell for doing assignments and researchs).
It is fast, it has a really good range of apps, and it is so small and so thin - she can easily get it into her handbag and uses it in cafs or on trains with no trouble.
The new Macbook Air is so light and user friendly that it has quickly become our favorite computer.
So, back to Apple it went, ordered one from Amazon.
They are lightweight and the only way to go for kids who love to surf the net and take chances of getting viruses.
FInally after debating with myself I decided to buy a Macbook Air 11", the newest available late 2010.
Amazon did a great job shipping in two days my new toy.
I was using a PC based net book for about a year and really had learned to settle in for the various short comings associated with that.
My item arrived 1 day ahead of schedule EVEN though my area was rocked by a tropical storm.
I had a 15in macbook pro from 3 years ago, which heats up and go crazy when I play WoW.
I decided to upgrade, between MBA and macbook pro15.
They even placed a claim with Apple to try to obtain the part for me, but unsuccessfully.
The second, the hard drive failed a week later.
So, I went back to HP and got an envy 17 with gobs of memory (16GB RAM) and 2 hardrives (one 300GB SSD) and 3D, a back lit keyboard, blueray drive, and i7 2860 for under $2400 with coupon code.
This includes MS OFFICE small bussiness, ADOBE, 2 years Norton.
However, it will wake up almost instantly, or take under 20 seconds to reboot (SSD does the magic).
Difficulty was trying to update operating system with Lion.
In conversation with Apple, who has a very very good tech support, the passcode for the update was sent to office email, where as, the filters denied the access.
I use a mac in school so switching to a mac at home seemed logical.
Just ordered and gave my wife a new 13" Macbook Air for her birthday.
After have been using windows for almost 25 years, switching to Apple, was a hard decision.
When seller was contacted the responce was if you dont like then send back.
This is not okay because Apple has refuse to add on the extended warranty as well because Adorama is not an authorize dealer and the warranty began when they bought these computers from an Authorized dealer .
Only draw back is needing a separate disc drive, but no big deal.
Freezes constantly but returns to being useable.
Over the course of the last 1 month - one by one the following have failed on my brand new fujitsu (bought less than 3 months ago) :Network card (working sporadically only)USB3 ports (both of them)The trackpad (not working any more)The numlock keysThe erratic jumps of the mouse (using external mouse)Who knows what else will fail on this horrendous machine.
Bought this as a secondary laptop and with very light usage (4-5 hours per week) I ran into problems.
The mouse click button broke after about 5 months then the hard disk crashed a few months later.
Live and learn!
I bought this unit for a friend of mine as a gift.
This unit (Asus K52T-BBR5) failed right out of the box.
Initially he agreed to take it back for a full refund plus the cost of return shipping.
It would take several days before he would respond by email.
After he got the unit back, he claimed that the unit is working fine!Not what I expected to experience on Amazon.
Greaat laptop for college lifestyle has webcam for chat aswell.
The surface is textured - it eliminates fingerprints all over the outside.
This product has performed very well with middle and high school students over the course of two years.
He can use the internet, play internet games with out any problems.
Unable to increase the volume.
I ordered this Toshiba laptop through Amazon Lightening Deals during the holiday season for $420.
asked them if I returned computer if they would ship a laptop that has the webcam that was on advertisement.
Looked at posts today and seen where some customers had received 50 dollar credit and where some had rceived 20 dollar credit.
Soon we will know the truth.
We purchased this laptop for our daughter for Christmas... purchased on Black Friday as one of the lightening deals at only $330.
Got this in the lighting deal and had it for two days now.
Updated the wifi driver on the Laptop and also changed some settings on the Router.
Now that seems to be solved.
Amazon did stumble in the description department, but they were good enough to offer gift cards/rebates for people who ordered this during the lighting deal.
For $330 this is indeed a good deal (310 after $20 gift card), even without the webcam and mic.
USPS says the tracking number does not exist (both in store and online).
11/29/2010 is when amazon states that they gave it to the post office for shipment.
Have to go find a pair of external speakers for a laptop??
This was purchased for an 11 year old and is perfect.
Mine is going back.
They will not send out the computer that the description matches.
A real bargain from Amazon.
Toshiba Satellite C655-S5119 15.6-Inch LaptopPosted by adminNovember 20, 2010Toshiba Satellite C655-S5119 15.6-Inch Laptop Review The Toshiba Satellite C655-S5119 15.6-Inch Laptop  Get things done and stay connected with the Satellite C655 laptop, a very affordable, easy-to-use PC for basic productivity at home or in the office.
For what this laptop was intended(an affordable new laptop) it gets the job done.
My Toshiba Satellite crashed 5 times within the first year, each time Toshiba states they replaced the hard drive.
Transferd from department to department.
This laptop is a GREAT buy for the money and for what I need it for: student info, school financials and billing.
All people want is something for nothing(the person bitching about they should get an HD webcam).
Laptop was advertised with webcam and microphone.
Online Chat simply asks you to call and when you call they have no idea what is going on.
Guess the old rule applies if it is too good to be true ... Toshiba Satellite C655-S5119 15.6-Inch Laptop (Black)
I called again and got the call center out of West Virginia.
Now on to the computer itself.
The quick start guide inserted with the packaging has a disclaimer on the integrated webcam and built in mic stating "Available on certain models".
Not to mention disappointed with the wrongful advertisement and double the disappointment with customer service requesting to return the product.
got a $20 gift card for the mistake.
She had been using a smaller laptop for school work.
Customer service was very good with e-mail for order inquiry & tracking number.
While being very light is an attribute, the hand rest area can be heard flexing with the slightest of pressure.
She loves it compared to her old Gateway.
I was charged for the new hard drive, which will supposedly be credited back into my account when they recieve the defective one I had to send back.
When I get back to the states, I will hook up a wireless mouse and external keyboard to it, thus eliminately these things I hate about it.
When typing, the paragraphs would disappear or the curser would jump to another area and make you type words out of order.
Recently the only problem that has been happening is that the face plate that the keyboard is on is coming off.
After crashing, killing, and setting other computers on fire, this laptop has truly withstood my abuse.
Major Pros:  The battery life on this computer is quite lengthy (around 6 hours really), speed and internet connection is quite strong with relation to wire-less internet options, the camera functions well in all applications (Skype, fb chat, uploads, etc).
Cons:  The automatic Microsoft Office that comes with the computer is very limited.
In mid March the laptop had to go back to Toshiba because the whole right side of the keyboard stopped working and the touchpad would stop working correctly after a few hours of use.
A couple weeks later certain keys would stop working intermittently but after a few weeks they all started functioning properly again however the touchpad was still messed up to the point that I had to plug in and use a mouse.
Found out that the CD drive is also failing.
The price of U$649.99 is for an entry-level configuration.
Samsung must have used the cheapest components possible when designing this mouse pad.
I had four HP laptops prior to this Toshiba laptop for the past few years and I had multiple problems (hardware and software) with all four.
It is smooth and fast enough to browse internet, work with office and Photo Shop.
They seem to run forever.
However, this Dell Studio 1558 failed within 13 months.
The cost $450.
The fan is noisy and over heats leading to sudden shut down.
My sons dog scratched the inside bottom case where the lights for hard drive are, also scratched off 3 keys.
The body in front of the keys is flimsy plastic.
The unit has dropped dead constantly from day one in November 2010.
It has been sent out for repair for the third time now.
Came back "fixed" with the SAME problem upon return.
I sent it out with the label, got a label by e-mail about a week later.
An investment of over $800 and over 5 months time I HAVE NOTHING!
It was advertised as a "laptop" running Windows 7 Premium and having a DVD drive.
I LOVE the retractable usb mouse (it also has the dodgers logo on it).
I tried to do a netsh winsock reset from an elevated command prompt and resetting my wireless router, reformatting the laptop, shut off active scanning on Microsoft Security Essentials, removing Microsoft Security Essentials, and a whole host of other things.
The over all start up of the computer is quick.
The other has loose keys on keyboard.
I bought this computer as a present for a friend who had been using a desktop for more than 8 years now and needed a new computer.
Took it to geek squad and who recommended us sending it back to Acer.
They offered to pay for shipping only when I asked them.
They changed the harddrive.
After being cycled 3 times I get a guy who competely ignores everything I say and insists I dont know anything about computers.
We send the computer AGAIN and this time they change the CPU and motherboard.
I am a database developer; I work with Sql server 2005 client tools, virtual box, MS office, VPNs and other development recourses.
* Over 4 hours battery (six cells), NICE!.
Note for international buyers.
Top of the computer gets finger prints mad crazy but luckily around the keyboard it has a texturized plastic housing which eliminates finger prints.
Forums all over the Internet started talking about "random vertical lines" and "black screens".
The "awesome Asus warranty" that they tout?
The turnaround time is "ABOUT A WEEK".
Which, from past experience with laptop service centers really means "ABOUT A MONTH, MAYBE TWO".
Bottom line - STAY AWAY FROM THIS PRODUCT.
After Asus kept this laptop for more than 3 months in repair (they said they "lost it") we have been struggling with it on & off for the past 10 months.
Two of the four USB ports are now loose and often drop connections with the device.
On each of these issues we reported them via the "VIP" customer service system only to wait 4+ weeks to get a response of "try re-installing the OS from the system recovery" and then a "reply for an RMA".
Yeah, like we are going to send this in again any time soon after having not had use of it for over 4 months on the last go-around.
)The rubber pads on the bottom are glued on, already lost one, not a big deal.
I purchased A G73JW-XT1 (a slightly different model) and inside the box was a little "Notebook Warranty Card".
The computer was a gift for my son to replace his old laptop.
Start is great with WIndows 7 Prof.
This one for my Sister to use at home.
The only interesting part was the trial microsoft program would only recognize Mandarin Chinese.
Her only problem is the keys are a tad small.
We will be getting another one (larger  when her daughter wants one of her own.
After loading Microsoft Office Professional 2010 + Microsoft Security Essentials I began receiving messages from Microsoft that the version of Windows 7 was not authentic and that Security Essentials would shut down in 30 days in addition to automatic updates all failing.
Since I had already loaded MS office professional 2010(a very expensive program)I was forced to buy an authentic version of Windows 7-and load the authentic product key- BRINGING THE TOTAL COST TO WELL OVER $400.
The automated return process is not set up for specific requests and only offered a return.
We loved the computer when we first got it.
After 1 year and 9 months of home use (only used a couple of hours each day) the computer started cutting off the power to itself and would not turn back on immediately.
We tried several fixes offered up on computer repair blogs.
anyone who dis agrees apparently never owned a dell,HP,mac,or Samsung.
All in all the computer works great for basic student needs (essays, research, excel).
She has no qualms with the keyboard or mouse pad (as others have stated).
The webcam is high def that is nice when you want to video chat with friends, family and anyone else you know.
Good looking hardware price is a good machine for users of office and web browsing:) have what it takes to make school work and University
Awesome laptop got it for $379... Lots of bloatware get rid of it!Update to the newest drivers for AMD 11.2 and Flash 10.2  1080i plays perfect.
I had one Acer laptop before, and the heat coming out of that laptop was insane, and it got worse after 2 years of usage.
Purchased this laptop about two months ago for everyday use at home but specifically for school.
Will no doubt purchase other products from the Timelinex brand in the future.
The battery still lasts 2.5 to 3 hours on a full charge with high multimedia use (watching movies, playing music, etc.).
I got this for six one three from microsoft store with tax.
It does the job when it comes to his homework, games, youtube and the special shows he likes to watch.
However, after 1.5 years the motherboard gave out on it and it will no longer power up.
Replacing the motherboard is a $400 adventure.... time for a new computer.
She wanted it large enough to watch a movie or tv show via the internet from time to time (plus it has the HDMI out to hook to TV).
She wanted a hard drive large enough to hold all her pics and songs.
And sometimes there is a separately partitioned drive (d:) that is embedded within the c: drive used for system restore.
;  I suspect more retailers will sell it for around that price for the pre-graduation sales soon.
The laptop was shipped absolutely free and came in professional safe package, which protected the product from been damaged.
Quite simply put, their is not another laptop in this price range ($629) that has the same specs, innovation and design.
I am not going to list the specs as they are listed in the description, but as I was burning Recovery DVDs I was also streaming HD videos in Firefox with multiple tabs, with Microsoft Office open and everything was running fast and smooth.
Bad hard drive after 2 years and does not come with a repair disk.
Acer will not help after one year.
I bought an acer (slightly different ,models) for both my wife and daughter and for BOTH the sound does not come out of the jack.
Having bought one Toshiba (18.4) and trying to buy a second,I was dismayed to see it $1,000.
I bought this laptop about two weeks ago for school.
According to the Acer website, as well as my contact with their technician, the max memory should be 4 GB (each chip 2 GB), rather than 8 GB as posted on the Amazon website.3.
Money well spent !
I researched many ultraportable laptops prior to deciding on this one.
For Internet access, writing, reading and composing e-mails and light to moderate office work this machine is ideal when portability is needed.
With frequent travel, I needed a laptop that had sufficient business capabilities (aka not a netbook) but was portable and had good battery life.
I did a ton of research on the AS183T-6651 before finally pulling the trigger.
We will be traveling as a family this summer and this will be our primary source of contact, bill paying, banking, etc.
Post travels follow-up.
Absolutely no problems after 10,000 miles, camping (I did get some looks from fellow campers in Yellowstone) etc.
This computer was our link to bills, work and the keeper of all journal entries and photos.
Now that we are home, the Aspire is on the kitchen counter or streaming an "instant" or pumping Spotify into our stereo system.
2 weeks later sent it to other warranty service and they had to replace the hard drive.
Actually purchased this at a store, however the day I went I needed one, and the one I planned to buy was out of stock, however ended up purchasing this one, which was equivlent performance and hardware and $150 cheaper.
The "grainy" exterior takes a little getting used to, however in the end who cares that much...
However, the laptop I received does not work properly (I already sent in a trouble ticket).
For two weeks!
Then the computer, brand new started freezing and dropping Internet connection.
What happened to customer satisfaction?
my six year old opened the box before i arrived home and actually was playing games when i arrived.
Tech support was not helpful returned the computer.
At $399 plastic will have to do.
However, we use these as grab-n-go devices that we take to meetings or when traveling so that we are seldom on these more than three or four hours at a time.
The computer is upgradable from 3 to 4mb RAM for only $25, and comes with full version Windows 7 home instead of Starter, so that is a $60 advantage right out of the box when you add this cost to the other ones.
I had one when they first came out and even put a new drive in it but the key board and then the video card gave out.
I bought this Acer sub notebook via Amazon and day 1 upon getting this notebook I tried to download google chrome and anti-virus via wifi but it wont go thru.
Windows 7 Home Premium - not Starter or Basic.5.
)UPGRADES & ACCESSORIES to consider:1.
WiFi mouse to free up a USB port.
External DVD drive - the computer does not have an optical drive.3.
(3) Power button is immediately above Esc key.
For those who use Esc repeatedly, it takes a while to learn to not press the power button while trying to press Esc.
in the first 3 months it quit working,called acer  they said software issue and rec i buy new program for $20.
and run it before sending the unit back under warrenty.
:-)
No way to deal with them...
after about 4 months of using it, the plastic that connects to the monitor broke off.
They claimed that plastic casing is not part of the warranty, and said that external force might have been applied for the damage.
I heard "click" sound whenever I opened my laptop monitor (I guess that "click" sound is coming from that broken plastic now).
After looking for a few days, I decided on this Acer model.
A steal for around $400.
Purchase as a birthday present for my daughter.
No problems at all after 3 weeks.
Negatives: - - - -- Bad wallpaper on factory startup- Mono Speaker- Nvidia Optimus Technology to automatically detect usage and switch between Intel HD GPU and Nvidia GT540m GPU.
Tried all the new and old drivers available at acer website at usa and australia.
6.9 for gaming only.- Tried useless Nvidia control panel to change graphics as applications are used.
Search google for "How to switch graphics card with Nvidi - Lenovo" .
As for the Windows 7, a person who has typed for over 25 years and used Microsoft word since the beginning - the subtle differences are annoying and frustrating.
Creating documents such as research papers have minor but important differences when printed.
The person who bought this pretended he was us and this item was shipped to him in Conn. before we were able to stop this crime.
This happened several years ago
They try to get me to send in the laptop "It will take 8 weeks to fix and send back" to which i responded "Just send me the hard drive and I will install it myself".
Take 25 screws out, then pry open the case top, popout keyboard and gently remove its wires, then unclip two other wires.
Then about two months ago the screen decided to go out.
It had up to date drivers, nothing was wrong with the screen (no cracks etc.)
Never buy another Dell they are he**.
P. S.  Customer service is provided by non native english speakers who have no idea what you are saying, in fact they redirect to everyone before you finally get a person who understands.
I spent over 3hrs on a phone just to get them to send a hard drive.
It has already gone back to Dell twice for the same problems.... motherboards replaced both time, within 1 month of each other.
The computer was gone for 2 weeks each time... a real inconvenience.
Finally this past weekend the motherboard went out when the 7 beeps started happening.
Tried calling Dell and spoke to three non-English speaking people with no people skills.
"You must buy from Dell if you wish to be helped" they kept saying.
My computer is 13 months old and has the dreaded 7 beeps of a faulty motherboard.
Michael S. DellChairman of the Board, Chief Executive OfficerOne Dell Way, Mail Stop - 8033Round Rock, Texas  78682 - 7000---------------------------------------------------------------------Office of the Attorney General of TexasMr.
Box 12548Austin, Texas 78711-2548Office of the Attorney General of Texasoag.
This crappy computer actually works ok UNTIL the motherboard dies just after the warranty expires.
So i will buy another computer (NOT DELL) and sell the paperweight m5030 for parts.
I helped my brother buy this laptop last summer and he has had only minor problems (windows related, not Dell).
The mother board was the problem!!
THANX MOM!!!
After just a month, started having problems with the touchpad.
Next step is for a part to be ordered and they will have someone fix it.
I found that the memory upgrade to 6GB was no problem($43) and keyboard removes ok for the memory access.
Windows anytime upgrade got it to Windows 7 Pro for $89.
Right now it is running an XP machine in virtual-pc and a 2008 server in virtualbox but having trouble running both at same time.
The wireless network is g and wired is 10/100 not 1000.
Then the infamous "7 beeps of death."
internet function did not work, they repaired and sent back still not working.
I am a college student and need it for Microsoft office and research.
Then after the two year mark I got the "7 beeps of death".
I bought a new one not too long ago... i was able to use it for 4 months and the lcd started to act crazy (purple spots on screen) and it slows down.. shipped it twice to dell for repair got it back and after a day i got the same problem again.. they sent me a replacement but a refurbished one.. the replacement they sent me didnt last 6 months and they told me that its already out of warranty cause refurbished laptops only have 90 days warranty... i bought the new one 10 months ago and then the one year warranty is voided because it was overlapped by the warranty of the refurbished one?..
To fix it remove all the screws on the back except for the ones along the hinge area of the LCD.
Next remove the keyboard, there are little clips at the top that hold it on, then remove the top panel of the case (there are thee cables that attach, the speaker the touchpad and one other, this need to be disconnected).
Using a heat gun at around 300 degrees make little circles for two to three minutes over the two chips to the left of the processor.
Now I am getting the infamous 7 beeps after only a year and a half.
Six month after we purchased this dell laptop, the display stopped working.
Then two times the supposed right person will drop the call after lengthy questions.
The product was given as a gift, and the recipient works with computers daily for web development.
Sin embargo la batera no dura las 6 horas
I have spent countless hours on the phone trying to get a problem resolved.
!From the day of purchasing, within the first year, this machine was sent 3 times to the service for repair.
Laptop did come with unnecessary software, but takes 5 mins to remove.
Only downside is part of the letter came off on the N key... will replace the keyboard within the next year.
to be able to go on facebook google email on the go.
She is excited about starting college in the fall with her Dell.
Tiene muchas funciones Dell combinadas con las del sistema operativo (Windows 7)que la hacen ms eficaz.
After contacting seller,they asked me to send details of the product along with S/n, after that no one has responded and even closed my request brutally saying you must have read rules and regulations.
He likes it and was high on the learning curve when he got it.
Sincerely,Another unhappy customer
I have always had a large CPU, monitor, keyboard, etc going back to my first Radio Shack 8086 machine in 1990.
Dell Inspiron 15R 1570MRB 15.6-Inch Laptop (Mars Black)
Two of the usb ports are on the back and inconvenient.
And finally, if you plan on playing high resolution games, you may want to instal a new graphics card.
I have a Dell before and i have during 5 years until the motherboard burned up.
The item was well packed and arrived in two days, as promised by Amazon for Prime members.
My daughter uses it every day for school work.
Ordered this laptop from Mac Store.
Everything operates smoothly and fast.
It meets all my criteria as well - fast internet surfing, great for holding my itunes music, a webcam for video chat.
This was my "christmas gift" from my father.
Had a question for them and they sent me an instant email to answer my question.
Just have to mention that some of these white models were  nick-named"crack-books" due to fact that they ummm, well, cracked.
!I spent hours researching this to see if it was common (answer, "yes, very") then many more hours arguing with Apple headquarters to convince them to replace these items.
The cord in particular was a fire hazard!I had just attained my requests, picked it up from the store all new and pretty-and then I lost it to a thief!
The Mac Book came quick in the mail and well package and this product is great.
Had to buy a separate wireless mouse.
My daughter is extremely happy with her pc..
My son had gotten a good deal on a later model Macbook for about $300 dollars more at the commissary at his base so I thought I was getting a good deal on an up to date model like his.
Great company and product as advertised.
After several days of calls to the vendor, the vendor had my mother dismantle it and remove the hard drive and send it in for repair (being in a different state I was unable to help).
A few days later a replacement hard drive came and had to be reinstalled.
Very happy with the MacBook and plan on getting another real soon.
One day we hope to switch over to apple products all together.
I recently got this Apple MacBook computer after using many other brands.
By Gregg L. Friedman MD, Psychiatrist, Hallandale Beach, FL
I had an issue with the hard drive shortly after I got the computer, I contacted the seller and he resolved my issue free of charge and is sending me a new hard drive.
Customer service gets 5 stars hands down.
Computer was exactly as described and it was sent quickly.
Everything in perfect order.
Great Computer a must buy.
A must Buy
The laptop is a gift for a grandmother, so it took some time to confirm needs, and I ordered it late, but the seller came through, getting it to my house in CT over the weekend!
The laptop arrived on time, with a new display and keyboard, in clean condition.
battery lasts about two hours tops and the processor is slow, had to purchase a card to upgrade the RAM ($50), Visual look is like they described.
The MacBook, a late 2006 edition, with OS X 10.6.8 (Snow Leopard) and iWorks looks immaculate when opened, though showing significant wear on both the top and bottom outside covers.
Battery life is as advertised by Apple for this model.
The laptop runs hot (hot to the palms).
Gift for my daughter she loves it.
(8)I bought this to replace a stolen unit of the same vintage.
Then I shipped it back to US to be repaired (and then shipped it back to UK!).
They repaired it in US but soon after a couple of months it had a problem in the HD and it began to crash all the time.
I now face the prospect of waisting more money (I have waisted a lot on it) or buy a new one.
He said replacements were only given within 14 days of purchase.
I was told their records indicate that I had bought the laptop roughly 4 months ago (?!?)
It seems nobody at HP tested it before sending it to market
Took pics for HP service techs who were "shocked" to use their words at what they saw.
$740 for an intel 2.66GHz i5 processor, 4GB ram,and graphics with up to 1696MB is unmatched.
Difficult to press down, and difficult to control the mouse with the clicker right there.
Had this product just 18 months (6 months past warranty expiration) when the hard drive failed.
(The price for the computer is cheap and you get what you pay for, plastic case and look.)
need to buy a separate keyboard now :( .
I have a Dv7 laptop from HP (ordered from HP.
The ONLY downfall to these brands is the tendency to heat up to burning temperatures on the left side where the VGA connector is and the fan/heat sink combo right next to it.
Purchased this computer about one month ago.
Amizon is a Great place 2 by from they will follow up on your purchas
Bought this computer for my hubby years back and he loves it.
But your not going to find a better deal on the internet any time soon.
I lucked out in the purchase price on this one finding it at a local retail at a $170 dollar discount off the regular price of $899.
Paid about $1050 including 2 day shipping.
She wanted a Mac Book Pro 13" from Microcenter for $999 but couldnt stoop down to the level of a Core 2 Duo Processor and a much inferior Graphics Card, only 250gb Hard Drive and no BluRay.
The cooling system (fan) was running constantly from the very first boot.
The rechargeable batteries are used in HP and Compaq notebook computers.
Since the 2010 recall expansion, HP has received 40 more reports of batteries overheating and rupturing, causing seven burn injuries, one incident of smoke inhalation, and 36 cases of property damage.
The computers were sold for a full year starting in July 2007 at stores nationwide, as well as online at hp.
com for $500 to $3,000.
The battery packs were also sold separately for $100 to $160.
Affected notebooks include:HP PavilionCompaq PresarioHPHP CompaqFor a full list of model numbers and barcodes see the Consumer Product Safety Commission recall notice.
The model number is on the bottom of the notebook, at the top of the service label.
Recalled batteries will be replaced for free.
In the meantime, use an AC adapter to power the laptop.
For more information, visit the HP battery replacement program or call  888-202-4320  .
Judging by all the youtube videos on how to replace them this must happen a lot.
Warranty work not being fulfilled after 2.5 weeks.
El equipo, estaba como nuevo, tiene todos sus accesorios y funciona perfectamente, nunca he tenido problemas al comprar en amazon
The $634 laptop computer worked wonderfully for 12 months.
On the 13th month (1 month after the warranty expired), the powercord arced and fried the motherboard.
We called HP customer service and were told that because the warranty expired a month ago, we are on our own!
Before you purchase this computer, do a little more research to find out what problems people have had with HPs as well as what problems people have had with HP customer service.
The internet on it failed to load after only 30 days and I had to return it.
Bought this laptop for my wife as a replacement for her Sony Vaio which I also had purchased for her a few years back.
Did not start decide on this unit at first, the original HP laptop I was going to purchase did not have the finger print reader, blue tooth, lightscribe and a couple of other small features but did have the i3-370 CPU, 4 GIG memory, 500 gig HD, Windows x64 and a 15" inch HD display which were all requirements.
She LOVES the fingerprint reader as just one swipe and she is into her laptop and all web sites.
The aluminium case might help shave of a couple of ounces.
The scroll up/ down bar is missing.
This is an incredible piece of technology that everyone must lay his/her hands on to testify.
Only drawback is the touchpad mouse.
The Mouse pad is missing the scroll bar, but the up-down arrows do the same job as the scroll bar would.
It does take a day of playing with the key board to get use to the extra set of keys on the left.
I bought mine from Office Max for $549.
I called HP and spent the first two hours of the call following instructions from their "award winning" help desk.
He then routed my call to a "warranty rep" (or something like that) who came on the line a half hour later.
He said HP would arrange to have the machine repaired, as they had determined it was a defective motherboard.
They appear to have reached a corporate decision to send out defective machines and then repair them under warranty.
Finally, I should mention that the last printer I bought (three months ago), also HP, was also dead out of the box (they sent a new one).
It came quickly from the seller.
THEY ARE PATHETIC DONT PURCHASE ANYTHING FROM THEM....
The computer does have the i3 processor which is the lowest of the 3 (i3, i5, and i7) but is a major upgrade from the celeron processor.
I bought this in a holiday deal in my short visit to USA, after 2 days of using it , I am getting burning smell from the Vent area , I called the company reported this problem, they are asking me to arrange for shipment to back to their service center which takes 8 to 10 working days for it !
I have two high school students and Im in college.
Esta represent mi primera compra por internet desde Venezuela.
The only problems are the touch-pad mouse quit working after a week and the battery life went down very quick.
It seems to cause eye fatigue after many hours of daily use.
having trouble streaming youtube videos and other online videos.
Some days I forget to leave it charging and I am forced to not use it for an entire week until it turns back on.
My son is an avid gamer and he was very happy with the performance of his new laptop.
!, after one month web cam and microphone stopped working and in 4 month the speakers died !!!
I have been shopping for a new notebook for a few months now.
And after countless reviews I read, I finally decided to give the HP Envy 14 Beats Edition my final answer.
After troubleshooting the usual (another outlet, removing battery, rebooting computer, etc), I gave up and finally decided to call HP.
After 3 different unsuccessful cures, I was told that I had a defective AC Adapter.
The call took about 45 mins, and the result is that HP is shipping me a new AC Adapter via FED EX NEXT DAY.
He took it to the local service center, and they said they had to replace the keyboard, but the keyboard was not locally available.
P. S:This review is written by a non "power" user for another non power user :).
For the price, this is an amazing laptop for all but the most dedicated gamers (who will want better graphics) and video editors (who may want an i7)
The only knock on this laptop are the speakers.
good for students,gamers,business people etc.
Some info that you might find usefull:Wlan uses an Atheros chipset (Awesome to ermm.. Test the security of wireless networks)HDD is ToshibaIt doesnt have common buttons to turn on/off wireless or touch pad, you have to use Function button for this (Fn+X)It doesnt have LED indicators for Numpad or Capslock or ScrLock.
The set up and subsequent upgrades have been painless.
The computer adapts seamlessly to wi-fi or ethernet internet connectivity.
This reviewer likes the large keyboard layout and has found this laptop to be a good step-up from years of desktop computer use.
The graphics card is causing the system to crash and not allowing windows to boot.
Black ops: runs at 1152x720 with 2xAA,Vsync and everything else on at 60fps.
Dead Island: 1600x900 medium settings no AA, Vsync on went from 50 to 60 fps.
Crysis 2: Gamer settings at 1152x720 AA forced by game called TSAA with  vsync ran at 50 to 60 fps.
AspireAS7739G-6676 ( NX.
Buy Office 2010 to use the full-featured software.
Bing(tm) BarWindows Live(tm) EssentialsInput DevicesPointing Device Type TouchPadKeyboard YesBattery InformationNumber of Cells 6Battery Chemistry Lithium ion (li-ion)Battery Capacity 4400 mAhMaximum Battery Run Time up to 4 hoursPhysical CharacteristicsColor Mesh blackHeight 1.07"/1.35"Width 16.6"Depth 10.8"Weight (Approximate) 7.27 lbs.
MiscellaneousPackage ContentsAspire AS7739G NotebookLithium ion batteryAC adapterGreen Compliance YesGreen Compliance Certificate/Authority Energy StarWarrantyWarranty  One-year Limited International Travelers Warranty (ITW)Two-year Limited International Travelers Warranty (ITW) for the following models: AS5742Z-4630, AS5742-6674, AS5750-6677 and AS5560-Sb653.
I got this for a friend from Germany a while back, he has been able to play games like minecraft and skyrim quite well.
The manufactururers are like lemmings and all follow the leader.
As high as they get!
The newest 17.3" NV79 models feature Intel Core i3 and Core i5 processors at a starting price of $649.
Measuring 16.23 x 11.02 x 1.0/1.42 inches with weights starting at 7.3 pounds, the Gateway NV79 comes in a wide range of configurations that include ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5650 dedicated graphics and a Blu-ray Disc drive option.
Score another for the wife!
Just got the so-called "repaired" laptop from Acer for the fifth time.
We use for personal and business and stopped using desktop.
He is off to college this year and the computer does everything that he will need for college.
My son is very happy with high performance and multi-tasking which he needs for school work.
5 out of 5 for me- Kyle
I was going to buy it the same day that the Intel error was announced (1/31)... phew... dodged a bullet and return headache.
Later I learnt it had a recall as well due to  Intel Sandy Box Chipset.
I have tested and benchmarked several games such as battlefield bad company 2(my personal favorite)Everything High,Max Resolution,no hboa,no v-sync,4x AA,1xAF,28-38 fps,without AA 40-50 fps.
Team Fortress 2 Max Everything,60-110 fps.
Portal(similar i guess),crysis everything maxed in dx9(forced very high on everything by parameter changes)max resolution,no aa 35+ i believe(it was very smooth)crysis 2 multiplayer demo was smooth too.
Hello everyone and Amazon team.
Worked well for 30 days; day 31 stopped working.
)No Blue tooth.
( <10 dollar fix with a dongle.)4.
Item started having problems 2 weeks after i received it (would boot up only after 2-5 times trying).
Since then a year later my plug on the computer has stopped working.
I was looking for the ideal laptop for travelling, photography and storing photos made on our trips.
It takes some time to get used to, after having worked with a 15.6 inch Toshiba laptop for years.
After two months of use, it still looks new.
Everytime my friends see my computer,they kick themselves for not buying one.
This is with putting no new software on the computer at all.
I carried it in a case in my bag to school and when I retrieved it from the case, the part had broken off.
My mother in law has the same computer and when I visited her recently I noticed the very same broken piece.
In addition to these structural issues, the computer also has major heat management issues.
After using for only an hour on a solid table top surface, the side gets so hot it burns ones hand.
The Windows 7/64-bit and IE9/Google Chrome combos are fast, intuitive and seemingly free of bugs.
Even 2011 Norton Internet Security does not seem to slow down the computer - at all.
Been traveling Europe for the last year with it, its had many knocks, drops etc, never missed a beat.
Seller is fast with great communication.
It is working well for international travel and it not heavy to carry on a plane or commuting on the underground.
After spending hours on the phone with tech support I had to send it in.
A week later I received my laptop back with the exact same problem (the audio jack was still malfunctioning).
Bought for my daughter college student who had been using a netbook.
Also a good alternative to a tablet for someone who has to take notes all day and needs a real keyboard.
this defect is well known and the cause of a successful class action suit against nvidia.
other manufacturers have offered free repairs and support for having included this defective part in their product.
Have been looking for a replacement for a five year old Pentium laptop.
The appeal was the i5 processor (Sandy Bridge) and the built in DVD drive.
The problem was suddenly gone.
However, I did not stop finding the real reason behind this until I found so many reviews online claiming the defect of Window 7.
A colleague uses this notebook with an ssd and a hdd on the dvd-rom slot.
Now, I use a Asus Zenbook i7 with 4 GB RAM (non upgradeable) and 256 GB SSD  (non upgradeable).
(with battery and DVD-rom)With 2nd generation I5 sandybridge chip.
Disappointed with toshiba after been satelites owner for almost 10 years.
I needed a new laptop to use primarily when on vacation trips to stay connected,read books without having to carry an extra suitcase of them, but also to do some Photoshop work on the photos taken while on the trip.
Price was also important!I researched the available products and decided on the Toshiba Portege R835-P56x.
Jeff Hendy
My daughters had their hearts set on the Protege for college but it was backordered everywhere and they were leaving for college and had little time left.
com, via the Amazon website and they had only 3 left and we took two - probably the last 2 of 3 left anywhere!
They arrived via FedEx on time as promised.
A very good buy - great for students or anyone who needs the portability and the other great features.
The operating system is Windows 7 Home premium.
The utility shows 580.92GB for the C: drive and two hidden partitions of sizes 1.46GB and 13.79GB.
As an economics graduate student who shuffles between cities, this computer has been fantastic.
Mine was stolen in a home robbery last month and I just bought it again.
Here I just want to how to fix some errors that came with the system.1) Media Test Failure: You need to go to bios and reset the booting order by pressing F12 at the start of the system2) Event ID 10: Go to Microsoft knolwedge based to download and run Fix IT3) EVeit ID 1001: Disable Microsoft Mini Wireless Adapters
I actually purchased mine at office max, it was on sale for 650$ and with a two year warranty I paid 857$.
Toshiba protege crashed several times per day withKernel power id 41 error codeWell those crashes came out of the blue and ended up in the blueScreen that is... Toshiba tech support in the far Pililipins was helpful.
And arranged for shiping the laptop to the repair center.
So standby ... Willl report AFTER the repair.
executes "shogun2 total war" seamlessly.
touch pad is responsive and auto scroll works well in documents/webpages... frustrating when gaming;consider wireless mouse.
Purchased the i3 core model at Best Buy for $750 and got a free xbox 360.
Also purchased an Intel 320 120 gb Solid State Drive at Best Buy for $240.
I had an issue with the wireless card communicating with my Dlink router, but I had decided to get the Geek Squad tech support for $99 with the purchase of a new computer.
It took him two hours because he said he was servicing 6 other computers at the time he was working on mine.
The hard drive crashed on the one I purchased after only three months.
Wait for a mailing box, wait for it to be shipped to them, wait for it to be fixed, wait for it to be sent back.
It was frightening to order a laptop sight-unseen, but after a couple months use I am completely happy with this choice.
Eco mode is useful in saving powers when without power connection.
They shipped my computer quickly and it arrived in perfect condition.
That was back July, 2011.
I have called, emailed or faxed almost everyday since October and get the same answer - "it will take 5-7 business days to update".
There are no managers available to assist, they do not call back or respond to emails.
Considering this was a ~$500 computer, paying another $200 nine months later just to keep it running is unacceptable.
After to have had a Toshiba Satellite from the 2005, I thought that I went to have the same experience when I bought another new one, but was not thus, from the beginning frisaba and after months in center of repair of Toshiba in my country, she hoped that she followed well, and after 5 months she returned to give problems me, at the moment is 2 monts  old in repair center again.
lastima, le tena Fe a las Toshiba.
:(
The LCD screen on this computer broke within a few month of use (it was not handled roughly).
Computer was unbeleivably (SIC) slow when it worked.
Screen broke/cracked within two weeks and the Laptop never left the living room desk!
Sams club refused to take it back.
Within a month, I had to return one for repairs.
This computer (Model Number C655-S5142) just failed for a hard drive.
Screen (monitor) stopped working or responding after less than five months.
Pros: the eco setting is nice to help save battery power.
This is replacing a  six year old tablet that works, but....
This is the third Toshiba Satellite computer I have bought for family members and they have been a great computers.
When I called Amazon, they were extremely accomodating for a return and refund, however, not able to replicate my order as they were out of stock!
com and download the rtl8188ce driver update, download and install.
Approximately 30% of users report at least one significant problem with their new PCs.
Shipped to repair depot and came back with same problem.
I returned unit and received refund (one of the major advantages of purchasing through Amazon: provide a detailed and civil description of your problem and you have a good chance of getting it resolved to your satisfaction.)
I was searching for a replacement Toshiba brand computer and decided to search on AMAZON.
Had it a couple of weeks now.
While not the l675 had the l670 for 15 months and the keyboard quit working.
Wanted Min of $229.00 to fix.
At home computer and not used everyday.
Brought it to the Toshiba service center and they mentioned that it was a factory defect.
While I was in the service center, another customer who brought his laptop have exactly the same complaint.
She from the start had wireless problems.
After several calls finally one of the service people picked it up from warehouse.
The whole ordeal took over three months, phone calls, frustrations etc.
Any how, when this laptop arrived from the Amazon, it had identical issues with wireless (loosing connection, connecting and loosing it again).
I thought about sending it back, but I thought it would be an easier solution just to by and external USB wireless network plug (Netgear $34 at Best Buy).
The computer is exactly what was advertised, and will do buisness them again.
Toshiba Satellite L675-S7113 17.3-Inch LED Laptop (Grey)
Hard drive died a few months after a year and the computer constantly overheated.
Bought new satellite 655-s5156 Had a problem with the drive very noisy.
call went to india had a problem with the tech.
They sent me a new computer the next day.
This my second Toshiba, The first being an A205-S4607 which was  most durable after frequent encounters with my two year old( knocks, bumps and juice spills which is why I decided to stick with the brand).
This is the S5161X model purchased 2 months ago @ Amazon for under $500.
The second gen i3 Intel processor (2310M) is up to the task on basic as well as more advanced apps.
I ordered this computer for my mom who is a school teacher and she loves it.
Computer did come with some bloatware but they all do today.
She loves the new new machine.
It set up very quickly and off she went.
Bought one from Beach Camera, the laptop has the common x at the end of the serial no.
So they are selling the good ones!
Must buy!
After 10 hours of use, Ultrabook refuses to boot on Feb 1st.
(No returns after Jan 30th, convenient.)
Dell drops service call 2 times, and on 3rd try, politely yet inaccurately explains "Amazon Purchases= Amazon handles service calls"Cons:Poor Customer ServiceSlow start up (60 seconds+ on this model)Not enough Apps for Windows: News/StocksScreen commands not intuitiveBattery power only 5+hoursPros:Lightweight, screen sizebacklit functional keyboardNice graphics when it works
It also happens to those who just bought XPS12 recently.
The system starts up quick (solid state) and runs programs fast as well and is pretty light.
I planned on uploading photos, editing them with a Microsoft program, and using Microsoft Office to check my emails via Outlook and view and sync my Outlook calendar.
Tablets use the Andoid OS (Operating System) which was originally desiged for cell phone usage.
The concept of the computer is nice; however, actually using the computer is a daily annoyance.
Used for two months now.
This was a lemon of a computer, and I was banking on my daughter to take this computer to college next year.
I contacted Amazon on the problem and they washed their hands of the problem by forwarding it to Beach Camera.
Toshiba Satellite A665D-S5172 15.6-Inch Laptop - BlackI have had this machine about one month now.
The usb ports are on the sides at the front of the computer and get in the way all of the time when I have peripherals plugged in.
"Intel finds errors in Sandy Bridge chipset"Claims are Sandy Bridge might be faulty and will need mobo replaced!
Ive been using toshiba laptops for about 3 years,they are always and excelent product I own four deferrent models for several years never had a problem until I purchase this one,this model wont even start with just the battery on it,you have to plug inn for it to turn on,but all I see is half screen is all white the other half is pitch black,so i returned it right away,decide to purchase it locally at office depot,same model this one also have issues wont turn on with just the battery and also wont start nor charge the battery,so I return it to the store,this time I decide to get the same model but the i5 version,and ask the manager if I can open it in the store before taking it home just to make sure it works ,for the third time this one have the same issue wont come on,wont charge we plug it in the store for 30 minutes still nothing so the managare decide to give me a refund,and acouple months later I tried again hoping to have better luck this time,because I really want to get the same model that I own for a year now but I want the new 2nd generation intel i5 toshiba satellite so i bought the i5 model P755-S5265 this one has a battery issue it wont come on with just the battery and wont charge either,but it works fine pluged inn and I want it so I compramise I ask the manager that I will buy this only if he will swap my battery to the one on the display which already charge,he agreed ,when I use the display battery it works fine,I never have any problem after that,but if you buy toshiba make sure to try it inside there store to make sure it works first before buying it or just buy defferent brand...
Bought one last week at Office Max with the expectation that I would be able to directly connect my older eSATA external drive.
However, two months in and the hard drive is failing.
Since day one I have had problems with the blue ray and now after 2 months the hard drive will have to be replaced.
A really good buy :-).
I ended up returning this to Amazon and purchased a Xoom from Best Buy and last week an HP laptop from Amazon.
Great laptop for a professional and a student.
A friend of mine ordered it from my account.
I went to best buy to purchase a laptop to play starcraft 2 and amnesia the dark descent i later learned that their best laptop was a toshiba that had to play starcraft 2 on the bare minimum setting to run and cant even play amnesia i would recomend for college and business but not for gaming.
We purchased this laptop for my wife as her old one stopped connecting via wifi to the web and the battery finally gave out.
We had looked at other brands, but the last two computers we had, a Dell and an HP, both crashed and lost their hard drives in a relatively short time.
The Toshiba comes highly ranked via Consumer Reports and our daughter had one that lasted throughout college and beyond.
Works great for small business use and some personal use.
We bought this computer five months ago and it has been having problems with shutting down for the last few weeks.
I guess I should have returned it to Amazon when the curser was jumping at the beginning while it was under their 30 day warranty.
This is the model that we bought:Toshiba Satellite L655-S5158 15.6-Inch Laptop (Black)
One would be the easily made finger smudges, and the other would be the amount of usb ports(two of them).
The first time they supplied the return box and paid shipping for warranty repair.
Finally figure out it is due to over heating.
The fan runs and the air is hot(60C by thermalmeter).
I sold the laptop at $150 at Craiglist last week (stated the issue).
First it crashed because of a major virus that got on it after the antivirus was installed.
Some key like "backspace" and "enter" are small.
It stays connected to the network, but the internet access gets on and off randomly.
VERY POOR CUSTOMER SERVICE AFTER THE SALE.
Mary Kate
Core i3 processor has worked very good until today for multitasks (internet and office applications at same time).
Excellent computer arrived in perfect condition in its original packaging, all the functions described in full operation, a team of good size in terms of quality for the job in the office, at home or on trips to deacargar family photos or perform work fast.
My wife out of the blue said she wanted a laptop of her own.
But as she stumbled with trying mine, I decided to buy her a PC Windows &.
I received my laptop and 4 days after receiving it, I woke up to use it again at my dining room table (where I had left it the night before) and the screen was broken.
they got their money from me.
(all are laptops)I compared Consumer Reports and found Toshiba to have a 15% incidence of repair(among the best)and was amazed that I could spend 400.00 LESS!I bought it for my sons birthday,Amazon was great when there was a shipping glitch,they MADE sure it arrived on time!My son loves it,I think its a steal,considering its not outdated hardware,and shares the same or similar hardware for hundreds less,than more recognized companies in this field.
We use Toshiba computers at home all the time and love them.
Dont buy this LAPTOP i bought one and did not know that it was faulty as described below in other reviews and now i am stuck with it because it is past the one month return policy so now i have to try to deal with Toshiba.
The backlit keyboard is great for late night surfing.
i was looking at some of the one star reviews and one lady was complaining that her daughter had fried the motherboard after only owning it for a few months.
In general i had like sony products, but this computer is really dissapointing:when you pay $1,000+ for a notebook you expect to get top-of-the-notch equipment, not true:1. battery lasting 1.5  - 1 hours (without playing dvd).2. i can not send the computer to "hibernate", it freeze the system and you have to reboot.3.
Everything takes forever with this computer.
Within the first week the "mouse" buttons on the the desktop began to glitch.
Then the left "mouse" button stopped working all together and I had to use an external mouse.
Then the ability to log onto the wireless internet stopped after 10 days.
I worked to fix the problems with no success and decided to return the Sony Vaio VPC-F13YFX/H 16.4" - 14 days from receipt.
Now I have to pay for the return postage and insurance.
After this 3 months I started Putting in games and other heavy programs to the pc.
I bought this computer and was very happy to receive it, but in about six months time the hard drive crashed.
They sent a technician to the house to collect the item and had it fixed and returned promptly.
Got the item when Amazon dropped it to $999.99 on 4/23/11.
Will soon upgrade to 8gb and update boot up time.
Would recommend getting the 3 year accidental damage Squaretrade warranty in case anything happens which was $180.
:)
Easily gets hotter and hotter and the cooling fan sound (which is unnecessarily noisy during standby) also gets louder and louder.
On the other hand, other companies as Apple and Microsoft do provide worlwide warranty support.
Crash a couple times when u gave lots of windows open, have this for a few months now.
all are for math programs for the medical world.
After 1 and 1/2 the computer crashed.
Shouldnt a company who is reputable be able to provide free tech support?
"I bought laptop from this seller in USA.
But when it died in less than a year while still under warranty, (and the paid for on site repair warranty), their customer service was awfull.
They never sent a technician on site, they said they needed to order a replacement for the touch pad and that it was out of stock and they could not say when it would be in stock.
They agreed to refund the purchase price after we return the unit, but the refund would take 5 weeks!!
I buy this laptop 2 weeks ago from AMAZON STORE... and they send me a broke laptopthe sund on speakers is no working,,,I try everthink but no sound...
I can not send it back because I;m in Kandahar ... Afganistan... and is a trikwith replacement... they ask me to pay another 740$ IF THE PACKAGE IS NOT THERE IN 30 DAYS....
plz rethink before u buy!
vent on left hand side-poor placement.
After checking with Amazon, Sony, and Circuit City(where it come from), I was not able to find another and ended up ordering a Toshiba.
got it for my mom and she loves it.
The unit was shopped in a large laptop box, and wrapped very well inside.
The unit is mint in appearance, and came with Windows 7 backup disc and power supply.
This used laptop upgraded to Windows 7 with Microsoft Office Business was an outstanding deal.
No fault to the seller, they did advertised Open Office.
Computer has worked well, and hope to have it for a several years.
I returned my laptop after spending many hours on the phone with both Microsoft and Toshiba trying to get the laptop to access the internet web pages without freezing up or crashing.
tech support from both M and T used remote acess of the laptop in an attempt to correct the problem.
Great and clear sound from the speakers and I have personally tested numerous MMO games on this laptop and played them at full capacity (World of Warcraft, Star Wars: The Old Republic, Champions: Online, and DC Universe, Online specifically) and all of them ran with 0 issues, especially after upgrading to 8GB of RAM.
A quick call to UPS got him to turn around and bring my new laptop back.
Hard to find these days.
bought this computer more then a year ago.
and had it in storage with a family member.
buying this Qosmio x8102 was an awesome investment.
:)
I live in rule town and usually have trouble receiving things net day even thought I pay for it.
update: DO NOT BUY TOSHIBA.... stopped booting after 6 months..... sent in for warranty repair..... Toshiba claims that my machine had "excessive spillage".... impossible... it has only set on my desk with no liquids around.
They want $459 to repair.
I then ordered a  different model 14.6 Toshiba from the Toshiba website (who was having a sale) with more speed and extras for the same price.
Item was customed ordered and will be in Tuesday.
Last night my husband was "pouting" about how he would like his own... so this A. M. I purchased one for him.
Now, IE9 is supporting the GPU acceleration.
The mouse pad (as mentioned by another reviewer) is sub optimal - slow to respond and seemingly inaccurate at times.
Great for traveling and home computer.
com:Use "logicbuy30" or "SAVE30HP" for $30 off.
orsign up for the "education discount" at hp.
com  and stack it with this code "SVQ724862" for a total saving of $35 off.
She loves and uses it too much according to her mom.
The unit gets hot and the transformer gets very hot.
She has only had a single instance of the computer freezing up and needing to be rebooted.
(She thinks she had way too many programs loaded at once.)
Has no problem having three and four programs up at the same time.
She is pleased with the time it takes to boot up and shut down.
Has had no problems running her games (which do not have high requirements).
the blu ray is an option according to HP but it will cost an additional $100.
It will start falling apart after about 5 months of average use.
I had been using Fujitsu laptops for more than 10 years and after my last one was damaged due toan electrival over-voltage during a thunderstorm, I decided to try something new.
Note: this equipment was purchased in Colombia!I only had problems with that machine (DV2000) overheating nvidia graphic chip; repairs every few weeks - and the HP service in Colombia was absolutely USELESS!!
!U S E L E S S!!!
4 months (Toshiba drive)and the equipment tends to get very warm; the fan runs all the time now.
And in the meantime, another HP device - my dsekjet F380 printer/scanner also broke: the electronic board is damaged and its repair would cost more than a new printer.
1-2 cents!)
After 2 months of light use, the hard drive crashed on this PO$ computer.
Overheats and knocks out the hard drive.
Battery life is great, no problems after ordering online and have had no issues since then (6 mos).
After two months of using this product the touchpad starts showing some wear.
Have had this laptop for about three weeks.
Decided to buy my first laptop when my desktop crashed with a virus.
Being generous with the four stars.
Great brand, great computer, great features and great protection plan.
The i3 processor along with the 4 gb RAM makes all the day to day activities a breeze.
My experience with Asus started two months ago today and I never plan on buying from them again.
The price was right with a speedy 320 gig 7200 RPM drive 3 gigs of RAM.
Plenty of ports... three USB 2.0 ports, an HDMI, a serial output for an external monitor, even an SD card reader...
Just running a couple of graphic intensive screen savers (Helios) revealed the power of the dm1z... the 610 cannot run these without extreme frame rate reduction... the new dm1z blazes right through them.
Reading comparisons with the Asus 1215 equipped with an Atom, the new chip combo presented by AMD is quicker in the dm1z.
Other processor intensive operations like Topaz plug-ins used within Paint Shop Pro also run surprisingly quickly.
Running an auxiliary hard drive continuously moving data and connected to the USB port drove that down to about 3.5 hours.
I attend class 9am to 8pm and throughout the day I use my laptop (normal usage, close lid carry, open again use for hour than close lid for another hour....) So far, I have never carried my power cord and never needed to charge my laptop at school (except when I was watching a movie).
Called HP, went through all the testing over the phone HP replaced the hard drive.
2 months later same message " imminent hard drive failure" sent me a new hard drive #3.
6 months later( now out of warranty) same message "imminent hard drive failure" called HP again.
Mine (7 mo old) is defective.
The unit has been sent back to repair twice and is on the way to the repair facility again.
Each time they replaced the trackpad.
At this rate of repair, my unit will have enough air miles to travel around the earth a couple of times.
No incident occurred to cause this damage.
This laptop was going for $1100 and up in local stores and online stores so you get a deal on this one from this site.
Product arrived on time with the free shipping.
RETURN TO SENDER.
A must have laptop for the people who are not into gaming and want to use the laptop for its real use.
Sony VAIO VPCS137GX/B 13.3" Silver Laptop
The warrantee will kick in and take care of the fix as soon as I can get the system back to the Depot.
:(
Received the the Dell 630 in a couple of days from Tampa Laptops.
When typing, the letters start in the correct place but then jump to another part of the email.
He listens to his customers and cares and upgraded my ram from 2 mb to 3 mb for only $10 extra.
Product was nice looking and functional when it arrived; however, 2 weeks after purchase I had to take it to repair shop as the keyboard stopped working and computer was infected with numerous corrupted files/viruses.
We purchased this laptop and it was dead within 5 weeks... unfixable...1 week after the return date.
To their credit, Amazon gave a refund immediately (less return shipping).
It is also a great business computer compatible with ant 21st century Windows operating system.
Dell Latitude D630 14.1-Inch Notebook PC (Refurbished) was working as expected and arrived in a timely manner as expected.
I placed my order on February 8th and paid money for express shipping.
I am an international student and i had 6 exams last week.
We needed a laptop with Windows XP and serial port to work on some equipment whose programs would only run on windows xp and needed serial port connection.
Hard drive squealed in first hour, power supply died in first week.
i am using it right now to write this, was worried about a refurbished computer but i was wrong, came as advertised and works awesome, i will buy from seller again when i need another one
I have done some shopping around for about six months for the best deal on a good laptop, comparing prices, features, and what people had to say not just about the product itself, but the spicific companys that sell the product, i look at new and refurbished/used, in todays economy and not much extra funds left i decided to go with this refurbished Dell Latitude D630, it was shiped promtly an had it at my door in a few days, a week later i ordered extra memory to update that and i am so very happy with my purchase from Amazon,... i would recomend this product to anyone.
I bought this laptop for my mom who knows nothing about computers,and she is able to navigate her way with no problems
When my laptop arrived I was very anxious and decided to open the box and begin working on my new laptop.
I purchased a used docking station which also includes a bay where the battery can be charged or the HD or DVD-ROM module can be used.
Try itself of reporting in 3 times they never answered sound a few thieves received and did not do nigun this sending he is a thief never buy, I hope that it comes to the jail
This lasted 1 week after purchase and crashed.
I purchased two of these computers for my young sons to use.
They are tough on their toys and belongings -- thus far, they have held up well to the stresses an eight and ten year old can dish out.
I had ordered this back in July.
I ended up buying another a few weeks later for another family member.
It arrived in 3 days from ordering, and I was worried about Christmas delivery.
and the money im saving every month!
Will probably go to college with him.
My brother in law bought this he loves it.
While purchasing a used computer is always different from starting with a clean slate, it is a good opportunity to save money and what I get on Amazon comes from people who have proven themselves.
I bought this for my brother after this laptop crashed (motherboard).
Came with Windows 7 instead of the advertised XP.
Recently that happened and I got a quick response, and returned the notebook and was sent another Dell.
Worked well on the 1st try and have used for a couple of weeks now with no problems.
I have contacted the seller requesting assistance with this, but have not heard back.
I was afraid to purchase a used laptop off the internet.
System operated as advertised and I upgraded it to Windows 7 ultima.... works wonderfully for my sons first computer and thinking about purchasing another for his younger brother.
I decided I wanted a laptop with wireless internet as I did not have the money to get internet service and with Windows XP.
It hurts to have to put money aside to repair a refurished computer.
Some people trade in their computers because they need or want something new.
Others trade in their computers because something is about to break and they do not want to have to get it fixed.
now I have to return and wait until I get my money back?
my wife has a toshiba and running the same programs and is super fast.
Plays Portal 2 and Arkham Asylum on High at max resolution without any hiccups.
They did there testing and replaced the battery.
Then within a. week after getting it back, the DVD drive was not working and the batter was still not holding a charge for the 5 hours.
I called them agian and got another service ticket befor the warrenty ran out but they did not send out a label to send it back.
But she never agreed to that.
We have tried to reproduce the steps that lead to this infuriating mishap, but we have had zero success in figuring it out.
Major drawback is video capability... Video RAM is shared within the system RAM.
Last thing is about the battery, unfortunately battery life is not so long as it was advertised (6 hours...), but only 3.5 hours, or 4.0 hours max.
Having ordered this with trust in Amazon to fulfill it as a NEW laptop I was disappointed to receive a refurbished item in crash recovery mode (with a notation that not all data could be recovered).
Upon a succesful boot up (third times a charm, right?)
In the three weeks I had it (really trying to just make do with it) it crashed over thirty times, I finally threw in the towel and returned it.
Connecting an external monitor works great and the O/S (windows 7 64bit) is fast and so is the boot time < 90 seconds.
Got a hold of an HP agent in no time, explained the issue, communicated the serial number and product number.
Agent responds with device is out of warranty, originally purchased in 3/4/11.
There were three options, one update the warranty information with HP (24-48 hours minimum) then call HP back and attempt to schedule a repair.
The second was return the laptop to HP and pay for the repairs out of pocket, or return the laptop to Amazon.
7-14 business days).
The outter case is sleek and computer was easy to set up.
Web, Office and mobile - thin, good looking and power behind it.
Which based on new ultra notebooks coming to the market these days - is too short.
However after adding a 128 SSD, 4GB Ram & 64 OS - this thing flies!
overpriced due to dell outlet sells this for $325.
My wife had a Toshiba laptop she bought in 2010 and after a few spills and damages from the kids the laptop fried in 2011.
We took it to best buy where we got it and got this laptop as a replacement because of our protection plan.
This laptop was actually more in replacement cost then her old laptop, but the store was past closing time by the time they were ringing us up and they just had a manager adjust the cost difference.
After the tech issues were resolved the computer its self is great.
They do not back up their product in any way.
After many hours spend on the phone with tech support and even a visit from a tech to replace the motherboard and video card, Alienware sent me a whole new machine.
So after getting a second non functional machine, they wanted to send me a third.
At this point I insisted on getting my money back instead and they agreed but here is where the customer service from Alienware fell off a cliff.
However before I send them back I asked for a simple e-mail from Dell confirming that I would receive a refund once I sent them the machines.
Last night I spent an hour on the phone with them being bounced from tech support to customer service to returns department, back to customer service, back to the returns department.
Finally when I asked to speak to a manager the response of the individual I was speaking with was "OK..." followed by a disconnect.
The unit looks rugged with is aluminum body but one tumble off my bed on to carpet cracked the screen, But Samsung Repaired it free.
Norton AnitVirus protection was pre-loaded on the unit, but no where in the handbook indicated Norton was included.
The delivery was prompt and everything seemed to be in order.
However, after owning the computer for little over a week it began to update constantly, for hours at a time.
After enduring several 4 hour updates on an almost daily basis I finally decided to return the laptop while still under warranty.
I returned the laptop and have yet to receive a refund now over eight months later.
I have attempted to contact the company but have received no response after they inquired for the FedEx shipment tracking number.
This is actually a gift to my friend and he likes to use window mail to download his mail.
Then he indicated I would have to ship back the unit to a service center in TX with a 10 day turnaround.
This is unacceptable to me - all our dell notebooks have had on site service, apples you can go to a local store (I am in the Boston area and there are a number of alternatives) for a fix as well.
My old Sony and my Macbook get 100% signal and about 18 Mbps on my wifi, the new Samsung sees 20% signal and gets about 4 Mbps.
This computer survived a fall (while closed) from about three feet in the air onto a tile floor and survived unscathed.
The laptop is great with on exception... within 2 days of use, the aluminum on near the hinge started to tear.
They should have made the bottom aluminum and the top plastic.
All the comments about the touchpad problems were true with the unit I purchased (and just returned).
Shortly before returning it, I needed to purchase upgrades on American Airlines for trip I would be taking the next morning.
The key was when they noticed that the wifi works very well when the machine is plugged into a power source.
So whoever is selling these items are buying them, and putting them into their names because I had to get the laptop transferred over into my name.
I tried to contact ACER and their form will not enter and I cannot find a phone number for them.
>:)
FIELD TEST, WORKS GREAT WITH NO PROBLEMS!
The BZ849 was 349.00 with free delivery.
Got mine in the middle of Aug 11 and had 1.4G 500G HD and 4G (2X2G) for 100 bucks less.
Bought this brand new from a reputable online vendor for $329, worked fine for almost exactly 18 months.
The hardware had some issues(laptop will not sleep and keeps blinking when lid closed), that were never fully resolved even after sending it out for repair in the first year.
After my warranty period, my system crashed due to a virus, not HPs fault.
I spoke with customer support expecting to have them send a replacement for the recovery disks.
After paying 60$ for support, someone offshore most likely south asia picked up my call.
He never for a moment appeared to be interested in knowing the details of what happened or trying to use his brain to figure things out.
After all the tests passed he continued to insist it was a hardware issue that needed fixing, and that the laptop is to be sent to HP for repair, probably costing me another 200$.
He also sold me a 100$ customer support plan, which I figured I would need if I was to keep making phone calls to HP support.
After installing windows in a breeze, my laptop is back up .
MY advice to naive customers - do not buy HP because ischeap - just spend some extra bucks and get a real high quality laptop from some other vendor.
this computer is a complete waste of money total junk after 2 months the battery dont charge very slow keys fall off  the back light does not work and more
Within 2 months of owning the laptop, the keys started popping off.
However when it started happening again tech support was not that helpful.
I recommended the MIS in my company to try this six months ago, and they ended up buying 6 of them.
I got it for him as he went off to college.
If you buy items from this seller, you can always get rapid feedback about the goods and information you want.
I bought this to take on the road while traveling for pleasure, and to use for email, web access, etc while on the road.
Now I use it for everything and because i got a great deal on it i ordered another for the wife.
I bought the 17" Acer (AMD Phenom X4) for myself late last year.
After a few emails, they advised me to back-up my files and send (at my cost) the laptop for servicing - would get it back in 6-8 weeks!!!
What do they do with the computer for two months?
(I still remember the mid-1990s support from Dell - shipped without my cost the replacement part overnight, upgraded it, and apologised for the problem...)After a hard reboot, the computer starts normally and works for another 1-60 days without a problem, until the hardware encounters the same problem again.
Only had this computer a few days, and it will not connect to the Internet unless the power cord is plugged in.
I sent the laptop to the Toshiba repair depot and they claim she accidentily damaged it and they want $325 to repair it.
BTW, the entire system only cost $530 brand new.
According to Toshiba Customer Relations (and I quote) the "accident was caused by opening the case too hard".
Stick with manufacturers who stand behind their products.
Bought for a 13 year old and he loves it.
You get what you pay for.... money is hard to come by being a single mom.
THe computer was a gift for my daughter heading of to college and when it arrived it was broke.
After an hour and a half on the phone with Hp "India", they decided it needed to be returned.
Amazon came to rescue, and covered the charge.
The only problem is when using it for long periods it has shut-down on at least three occasions.
I bought this laptop a month ago and until now everything ok except for small things.
Just to let everyone know as of now (July 30,2011) You can buy this same computer or laptop, for $449.00.
Im planning on buying one next week during the tax free weekend in North Carolina.
Thanks for the Phone help Jessica as she helped me decide on this model.
Have a desktop at home but bought this for traveling.
The computer worked flawlessly and continues to work well today.
However, after removal this seems to a relatively quick laptop (would not characterize it as a "notebook") for the price.
This machine needs to join a Domain, and the typical Windows Home Premium at this price point will not get the job done.
Love the aluminum body which definitely helps with the temperature of the machine.
Only complaint is with Win7 which did strange things to the headset plug to not disable on board sound.
Verry Professional, Verry Stable, and Verry Secure.
Network Engineers, Helpdesk, Management, and Sales.
Booting to the OS recovery partition is the only way to restore the computer to the factory state.
The included software is comprised of "special" offer trials for office 2011 and norton internet security, adware, bloated "maintenance" programs, and a "security" suite that poorly duplicates functionality already included with windows 7.
There is no unified uninstall for these programs and with the exception of the included Arcsoft media suite and hp power management utility, the only useful function of the included software is to lull the user into a false sense of security.
Expect to spend about 3 hours removing these useless packages.
Without the hindrance of the included bloatware and with an SSD equipped, this laptop becomes the weapon of choice for people who like to get some work done on the road.
This laptop was purchased by me for my nephew who was beginning his graduate studies.
The product was received on time and according to specifications.
The system specifications for this laptop are incorrect on the site.
Google searched it, found it on Newegg.
This HP was shipped quickly and secure.
It was taken out of the box and ready to go in minutes (minus the time it took to set up back up disk and transfer files from old computer).
Everything arrived in their desired time1Everything arrived in their desired timeEverything arrived in their desired timeEverything arrived in their desired time
The system shuts down so often due to heat.
These issues included random shutdowns, random freezing (completely unresponsive) and periodic slowdowns.
The phone was answered by a man who spoke broken English.
!With in the first month the heat sink stopped working, had to send it back to Hp to get it fixed.
I took them 2 weeks to figure out what the problem was even after i specifically told them what washappening, because the call center person who i spoke to entered the data wrong(even after i repeated it twice)Now since last week i m again having problems with the laptop.
I plan to send it back & ask Hp for my money back,I have learnt my lesson, NEVER to buy Hp again.. Bad products & worse support you will ever find.
Wood and brass finished is great.
Twice the computer goes dead with no power.
The first time it went out I sent it back to the company on my dime and within 7 months later this computer went dead again with the same problem.
Took a star off for the day it took get the computer back to factory specs.
Also to place the USB inputs right where 80% of right handed people would plug in a mouse, it gets int eh way, place them on the left or back like everyone else HP.
Capable of AMD Eyefinity, running 3 external monitors as one.3.
When there is no 3D around they will turn to normal vision.
3 months later, Amazon took the item back for a full refund no questions asked.
3B177981KI bought my 1st Toshiba Satellite M645-S4116X (SNo 3B177981K) on 29Apr11 from Amazon expecting to receive a reliable piece.
It was sent to the service centre in Germany.
a) 1st error diagnosed as HDD defective, replaced (Service ref.
B7C1MW0447) and sent back 22July.
OS not installed since unavailable in the centre in Germany.
b) Our attempt to install OS from recovery CDs failed.
System failed to start up.
Shipped back on 1st Aug. (service no 1134003, customer no 73766 ).
c) Totally aghast when laptop crashes 3rd time few days later.
Bought the computer a week ago.
I bought the computer to replace my 4 year old computer (which I bought for $400), but it seems that they both perform the same.
It shuts down intermittently during both normal operation and sleep mode.
Every time I call, I point out that this is a known issue with 140 *pages* of postings on the Lenovo support website thread (search for "lenovo w520 shutdown", it will be the first result).
Since I received this machine on August 2011, it was sent to repair to a Lenovo authorized dealer 3 times already, on Nov 28th.
2011 they replaced the mother board; on Dec 29th.
2011 they replaced the hard disk; on June 6th 2012 they replaced the motherboard again.
Now it is broken again and the problem is with the mother board that needs to be replaced again.
I contacted Lenovo and asked them replace the machine; they claim they cannot because it was bought from a third party dealer and there is not they can do about.
At my suggestion, my sister and 2 friends each purchased this laptop.
it turned out to be a great deal, this laptop has been great, not a single problem, although i have had a couple of thermal shutdowns when i was playing a graphics intensive game with the laptop on the bed and didnt realize the fan was blocked.
The computer just shuts off (without any warning).
However, this helps to keep the weight and narrow dimensions of the computer.
Negatives:- right away needs graphic drivers and mousepad drivers updated or they will be messy.- a bit on a heavy side.- mine was missing a battery and HDMI port stopped working after a few weeks (not sure if software or hardware related).
Asus online service is terrible - I couldnt find a nearby service center in NYC on their website.
Works perfect with Sony Vegas 10 and Adobe After Effects CS5.
(14%)4 USB Ports 1 USB 3.0 3 USB 2.0.
When I decided to purchase a new Laptop I did a search for various brands for my requirements.
Onboard HD Graphics(Intel)6.
(Sounds Amazing)7.
Windows 7 Home Premium.
Dell Inspiron 15r Notebook Intel Core i3-380(2.53ghz) 15.6" 2gb Memory Ddr3 1333 250gb Hdd 5400rpm Dvdr/rw Intel HD Graphics Hdmi Webcam
After 4 months of moderate use of my brand new Dell Inspiron computer the keyboard stopped functioning.
After multiple phone calls to a call center (where english was a second language and they could only respond to what was written in their script)I was told I would have to replace the keyboard myself.
That failed, so after many more calls they agreed to send someone to replace the keyboard.
Many calls later, the repairman replaced both parts.
After 9 months of infrequent use, the hard drive crashed.
I made multiple phone calls to the "direct line" of the customer service person over the next three months.
I resorted to writing to the owner of Dell, Michael Dell, received my letter and a few weeks later I got a call from someone that had no idea what the issue was.
After explaining to him he said someone would get back to me.
Dell Optiplex Computer with 19 inch LCD Flat Panel Monitor (Single Core 2.8Ghz Pentium 4 Processor, 4 GB RAM, 750 GB Hard Drive, Windows XPDell Inspiron 14R i14RN4110-8073DBK 14-Inch Laptop (Diamond Black)Dell Inspiron 15RM i15RM-7412DBK 15-Inch Laptop (Black)The end result...
We looked into just what we wanted for a computer and then asked the advise of a (our) computer repairman (who is very good) on just what we needed and he gave us three computers (laptops) to pick from.
: I purchase 20 of these and now i am getting thermal issues on all of them!I call HP and they are no help, now i have no choice but to throw them all in the Trash what a waste of money!
The horrible screen corruption and thermal shutdown problem came up after only two days!!
I am a mom going back to school and was thrilled to find this laptop for this price.
I was afraid to buy a older laptop was rip off before only lasted one month but after 2 months this
(I am a firm believer in the "every other OS sucks" school of microsoft products).
My wife and I bought three of them and we use them for home schooling.
We have 5 kids, bought these three for our boys and will not hesitate to pick up another two for our two younger girls soon.
At work our company purchased a fleet of Dell Latitude E4300 to replace our old D400/D600 notebooks.
The E-Series will last for many, many years to come.
"Dell Customer Service for Small Business was superb, delivering new keyboards overnight, or sending a technician over, the next day with almost no questions asked."
The "space" bar sticks, of course thats very annoying (get what you pay for).
There was an error msg "not genuine software" which is very common with Microsoft Vista, however the vendor should have included a note and the best way to resolve.
Only of course if they desire repeat business!!
Upon arrival, the battery would not hold a charge and the unit had to remain plugged into A/C power.
I contacted the seller and they immediately sent out a replacement battery which also did not hold a charge and had to remain on A/C power.
About a month ago (the system was only 7 months old) it began to power off after becoming extremely hot on the underside (I am assuming a fan issue of some type).
Just last night the system died.
So here I am, with a laptop about 6-7 months old that I cannot use and am going to buy a new one later today since I must have one for schooling requirements.
You can get a 2.5 " 250 gig drive for under 40 dollars.
Ordered one 2 years ago.
This rev of the Inspirion is a step up in terms of build quality, compared to the 1st gen Inspirion 1440 we got 18 months ago.
Before you purchase an Inspiron 14R, you ought to handle one in a brick & mortar store.
Mine failed after just a year of using.
It is not a very fast laptop and continues to get slower each day.
It takes forever to log in.
He has no problems with it and it has Microsoft Office so he can do his homework on it.
Comes with 30 days of McAfee Anti Virus.
Thanks Amazon and their return policy, I hope to get a refund and buy another brand, Dell is very dissapointing.
Dell customer service is good, they immediately send out re-installation CD for OS
On other sites / stores this product was available for $679+ and they have delivery time in excess of 10 days where as Amazon delivered it in 3 days.
Computer:Dell Inspiron 15R i15RN5110-7223DBK 15.6-Inch Laptop  (Intel Core i3-2310M 2.1Ghz, 6GB DDR3 Memory, 640GB Hard drive, Wifi-N, BlueTooth, USB 3.0, Windows 7 Home Premium) Diamond BlackMy experience with this unit, while short, has been very positive.
Used: Have never bought used, decided the gamble was worth the worry.
has windows 7. good for students because it comes with microsoft office.
MINE HAS BLUE RAY FOR DVDS.
Ask somebody who knows about computers...
After only a year, the hinge which is fixed to the base (by screws) broke!
Two weeks Dell!
Foremost of these is the touch pad software which was practically unusable until a driver update was ran.
The computer arrived in great shape and on time.
I purchased this laptop for my daughter as she was going off to college less than 18 months ago.
So far the mother board and hard drive have had to be replaced.
Hard drive is not user upgradeable and requires complete factory disassembly to replace, the mother board must be removed, worse dell design ever!
I purchased a Dell Inspiron N5110 for almost $800 (with the upgraded memory, processor, etc) that arrived on 1/11/12.
While restored to original and drivers required to be reinstalled, helpful notes were left by previous owner.
(end of summer deal)
I had an Apple MacBook Pro for YEARS and the only reason I bought another laptop was due to the keyboard beginning to fall apart on the Apple.
Easy set up, stable internet connectivity.
:(
Any student going back to school.
After searching for a solution on the internet, I found one possible cause of the problem was the antenna or Wi Fi adapter antenna connection.
Dells customer servce was mcompentant sendng her a another of the buggy laptop chargers to replace the buggy one she had.
Two years later she gave n and bought a really cheap charger for $30 and t wors very well compared to Dells very expensve one.
So after a year thngs started to fall off or not wor.
brought this laptop 5 months back on a sat morning.
in just 2 days..... and then it crashed again twice in the same week.
No after 5 months it suddenly turns off for no reason.
contacted Dell nothing worked was told to do a system restore planning to return it.
Down fall is battery life.
En resumido los programas son los mismos que cualquier maquina.
do not buy , buy a apple save your money and take a vacation or go back to work!
The only down fall is the battery power.
Warning of items sold by Data Master LLC or Better Choice Online.
I ordered this laptop for my aunt, who had been using an old Windows XP laptop.
You are getting far less of a computer for far more money and are tied into Google the king of information theft.
You can get a Windows based netbook for less which you can install application which are obtainable any where from free to a dollar and up.
You have one option submit a ticket, and send in with out any acknowledgement the problem was identified or resolved.
Return the unit for repair.
:(My third attempt phone ticket was 2110356786Action: Waiting on an Engineer to reply.
I was travelling from Dallas airport to San Franscisco and noticed a Samsung chomebook stall at the airport outside the Virgin airline gate.
You can open multiple browsers and use a toggle key to quickly browse between two chorme windows.
You can fold the Chromebook and as soon as you open the lid, it is ready to use.
The perfect internet appliance for getting on the web.
Perfect for email, google documents, surfing the web, etc.
great for those who live in the Google world and already familiar with the "cloud".
My wife, who has been struggling with Windows for years, says it is "an iPhonish laptop".
Item did not come with webcam and Microsoft operating system and office program not installed.
Purchased product key for both and Microsoft techs had to install both each taking over an hour.
The hardware configuration is perfect for a graduate student!!
Upon receiving the first unit it worked for about a week until the ram needed to be replaced.
Dell sent a new one.
Unfortunately that one had graphics card problems and Dell sent the wrong parts when asked to replace it.
It took 2 weeks and several different trips to fix.
I couldnt send it back at the time because i couldnt be without a laptop for college, so i planned to get it fixed over break.
I basically would have losted most of my data if i hadnt gone out and boughtSymantec Norton Ghost 15.0 - Single Userand aApricorn SATA Wire Notebook Hard Drive Upgrade Kit ASW-USB-25 (White)to transfer the data to the new hard drive i would be receiving once the laptop was repaired.
He caused his on host of problems but fixed all of the old ones.
Until one day, out of the blue, when I got a message while starting it up "the battery has been temporarily disabled.
Please turn off your computer and try it again when the unit is at operational temperature".
It never worked without the AC adapter (just on battery power) after that.
Basically, after searching online, I found out that other owners of this laptop have had the same problem with the battery.
I spend a few hours with the Dell tech support and realized that I would have to send the laptop to a Dell depot as my warranty didnt cover them sending a technician on site.
This model xps z15  model has been to repair 4 times in the first year.
The case keeps separating.
Now I was forced to replace it with a new (not dell) laptop one year after purchase whenI normally go 3 years.
I purchased this product a fort night ago and from day 1 i saw a problem with the battery charging.
Important to note: If you want the F1-F12 keys to function like a mac, just change the setting in the BIOS setup when the computer is starting up.
Mine has an upgraded screen that they stopped selling.
A month later I decided to upgrade to the XPS 15Z (receiving a refund for my original purchase).
Many, many phone calls later I was told to uninstall the touchpad mechanism and they sent me a separate wireless mouse.
This computer is 10 months old.
ive had it randomly shut off during games due to the heat.
after spending hours on the phone with dell support I find out that the processor fan was dammaged so i sent it in and they repaired it.
Personally mine came with the casing just under the mouse pad popping off.
Am trying to work through those in order to ensure that they are not a result of it being a refurbished laptop.
I have and AM using this notebook to write this review(2 years later, apologies, my friend).
added a N970 2.2 GHz Quad CPU, sold the N660 that came with it for $48 profit on ebay so a $30 upgrade.
Plus 8GB 1600 corsair RAM($60) plus 240GB San Disk Ultra SSD ($139), with the Express Card I have USB 3.0 and 1000Gb Net cards for another $30.
$390 + $30 + $60 + $140 + 30 = $650 for a $900 dollar notebook.
I ordered this for my wife and was looking forward to taking it around the block so using Amazon Prime I got it pronto with next day delivery.
The laptop  was dead on arrival.
Lenovo and Amazon customer service get 5 stars each.
They keys on the right of the keyboard (includes backspace, shift, arrow keys, right ctrl) are compressed, making it a bit uneasy.
This computer is great for only 400 dollars.
I recently moved from a nicely furnished house with roommates to a cabin by myself.
Just wanted something functional for the web, managing personal files, and using some (mostly free) software.
She plays bsic games, watches movies and explores the internet and has just discovered facebook.
Love the Face recognition security feature!!!!!
Will Order Again
For example  my vaio has an Ati video cart and it gets hot, while the lenovo keeps a warm temperature during the same applications (gaming).
Their support does not respond for questions about which driver to download.
The spacing on the keys (similar to Macs and Viaos) are a plus.
However, there is a fix lined out on the link.
In case of a broken link, here are the instructions (copy and pasted from site):Details of the issuedavid@david-Ideapad-Z570:~$ uname -aLinux david-Ideapad-Z570 2.6.38-8-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Mon Apr 11 03:31:50 UTC 2011 i686 i686 i386 GNU/Linuxdavid@david-Ideapad-Z570:~$ lspci |grep Atheros02:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express  rev 01)david@david-Ideapad-Z570:~$ rfkill list0: ideapad_wlan: Wireless LANSoft blocked: yesHard blocked: no1: ideapad_bluetooth: BluetoothSoft blocked: noHard blocked: no2: phy0: Wireless LANSoft blocked: yesHard blocked: yes3: acer-wireless: Wireless LANSoft blocked: yesHard blocked: no4: hci0: BluetoothSoft blocked: noHard blocked: noSolution for the IssueThe following commands will enables wireless till next bootsudo service network-manager stopsudo rmmod acer_wmisudo modprobe acer_wmisudo rfkill unblock allsudo service network-manager startAfter this step the status message in the Network Manager will be "Wireless is disabled"Now Enable wireless from the Network Manager using the following commandssudo rmmod -f acer_wmiWireless networks will be detected and connected.
To make this change permanent usesudo suecho "blacklist acer_wmi" >> /etc/modprobe.
Thanks to David John for sending us the solution
Today I wanted to send a file via Bluetooth.
Do not buy this laptop unless u r prepared to go thru a downgrade to 32bit which is not an easy task and no support from Lenovo.
This company EZ Corp really sucks......... Their a Pawn Shop....
The power cord plug is on the back as opposed to the side which im used to.
Arrived days before the first promised delivery date.
Great seller arrived on the day indicated.
She loves the "face recognition" as her security password, ease of operation, stylish design, clarity of videos, etc.
When buying our next laptop, we will definitely purchase a Lenovo.
Will continue to use Lenovo products.
Good for use due travel time.
Remember, the system is perfect for daily use and will NOT run MATLAB, AutoCAD, high level programming softwares, games, etc.
Tips:Install VLC player, disable the smiley dock and face recognition, install k-lite codec, use only Chrome or FireFox, Keep lenovo power manager (seriously good software) and you are golden.
Laptop for daughter.
Have not taken out nuisance ware but plan to.
My boyfriend purchased this laptop after doing a lot of research.
shipment arrived before delivery estimate, box in box !!
This computer is a MUST BUY!
Much better to have a single "C" drive and let the user(s) do what they want with it.
Next to impossible to find & push the button to eject the CD-player drawer; even with a fingernail.
Must use "My Computer" and click "eject."p.
In approximately two months the Xbox kept freezing up and the Acer hard drive went out completely.
When people buy things they expect them to last and function properly for longer than two months.
pros:Super super fastVery slim and looks niceVery good for moviesBattery life lasts forever.
I have been a man man for the last few years after owning only Windows machines for the prior 10.
I wanted to upgrade to one of the i core processors and with the free xbox 360 I decided to go back to Windows.
You can order them from Acer.
The 1st was a Frys PC which worked great for the past 6 years (and still does).
It is quiet, fast, and it takes all the newest and best technology and puts it into a small package.
Owned now for 6 months.
Bought new for 379$$.
I bought this computer to replace a 17", ten year old HP computer.
I had examined the HP Pavilion dm1 at a local Staples and when I went to buy, they had none in stock.
As soon as I arrived home I went on line to Amazon and there it was for a few dollars less.
It arrived before the estimated date and was immediately put to the test.
The wifi was quickly set up (with help from my internet service provider).
Shortly after purchase I loaded my genealogy software (Family Tree Maker 2011).
A brother in-law and a friend who have seen my HP Pavilion dm1 11.6" were so impressed that they indicated that are going to purchase one.
She recently started a new job that requires her to have her own lap top.
Poor quality and awful support(third world computer and tech support).
Ideal for college, and personal use.6GB and 640 Hard drive.
The order was processed and delivered quickly.
Even though the seller did not send an email update when the order was shipped, the order arrived promptly and everything was fine.
Laptop fired up quickly and performed well.
Tested the wifi connection (used internet from several locations) and the connection was very good.
I purchase this good from nigeria sent it to my friend in US who finally send it to me in Nigeria, When I saw the laptop, it look great but after installing and configuration, I shut it down, I later power ON the laptop and it give me hard drive error that the HDD cannot be found error message HDD not found (3F0).
I took it to HP office in Nigeria and they said that the serial number of the laptop is not included in the invoice, therefore I need to pay $50 to repair the laptop.
This manager alsosaid she was my one and only contact".
I forwarded the HP case manager 11 emails of reports of this same fan problem and overheatingfrom other HP customers after she told me she was unaware of any heating problems.
The same day the case manger called me back to offer me 50% off their service charge cost.
HP hires Support outside the US.
I am planing to expand the RAM before changing to a newer model.
I purchased this for my two exchange students so they could skype and do their translations without over running our home computer.
They are on this all the time and use it for everything, shopping, email,talking to family.
When the laptop arrived the packaging was perfect.
Right out of the box, the laptop was of course brand new.
I purchase this pc 20 days ago,for my daughter for school.
after 3 hours on the  phone with 3 different hp techs,all three concluded that the hard drive is defective,and that they would send me a new hard drive that i could install,or i could fedex the unit to them and they would install it.
hola a todo desde venezuela he comprado este producto pero a la misma amazon no a un vendedor!!
Great deal with the free xbox and the free game from steam haha.
Christmas gift for my daughter who selected this particular laptop that had all the bells and whistles!From processor to Dr. Dre tones it was her dream laptop.... She is on it 24/7 and no complaints!,,,
HP Pavilion dv6-6140us Entertainment Notebook PC (Silver)
The computer over heats all of the time and the battery died after a year.
I just replaced fan and the battery and two days later one of the USB ports quit working and today the vidoe card went out.
I got this exact same computer on sale at staples about 2 months ago for $449.
And does everything he needs it for, including playing games.
No one wants to buy a computer and sit for hours making user friendly after purchase
I made my order and choosed next-day shipping and got my laptop by tomorrow morning.
The laptop on occasion will fail to boot.
Computer arrived very quickly and was everything it was advertised.
On 2/25/2013, 12 months and 27 days later, the hard drive failed for no reason.
Of course, the warranty is 12 months.
And when I check the warranty online, it began November of 2011, 2 months BEFORE I bought it.
They will constantly overheat and then die a rapid death after the 1 year warranty expires.
I ordered and received my new laptop computer and it arrived well preserved and before the date it was supposed to arrive!
Finally found the one I liked and it was no longer in stock from Amazon direct ($529) I ended up stumbling across this at Staples for $449 (after a $50 mail in rebate) and then on top of that found a $50 off coupon in the store ad.
This computer is one heck of a DEAL for $399!
Devices:- Hitachi HTS547564A9E384- Intel(R) HD Graphics- hp_CDDVDW_TS-L633J- Intel(R) 5 Series 4 Port SATA AHCI Controller- HP Webcam-101- Synaptics PS/2 Port TouchPad- Ralink RT5390 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter- Realtek PCIe FE Family Controller- Intel(R) Core(TM) i3 CPU M 370 @ 2.40GHz- IDT High Definition Audio CODEC- Intel(R) Display Audio- Intel(R) Management Engine Interface- Intel(R) 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port- Intel(R) 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller
Great product for every day use at a very reasonable price (just below 500 $).
The keypad sits out of the surface, which leaves no crevices for grit to get in between the keys.
It comes with a super drive ( for all forms of discs incl.
If you buy this PC, amazon will probably give you a 95 dollar credit towards Microsoft Office 2010 keycard, which comes preloaded and means you probably will be able to purchase the software for 10-20 dollars.
this computer is advertised ad 1 TB hard drive and this is 2 500 GB hard drives and they are completely seprate.
i bought mine 9 months ago through Dell.
I7-2640 Cpu @ 2.80GHz with a turbo boost of 3.5, 8 gigs of ram, terabyte of memory, burns and plays blue ray 3D, nvidia Geforce GT 555m and will play almost any game max settings.
The laptop arrived in just a few days with no problems.
Since the Blu-ray combo was not included, I had purchase a Blu-ray disc drive, the software, and installation after I received the computer.
When dell made this one they knew what they where doing!
$1499.00 From AMAZON!
This laptop from MSI is a real power house.
The laptop lives up to the reviews.
Had to return it immediately.
Phenomenal Features- Amazing speakers for a notebook- Dual Hard Drive Bays- Only $1499 when purchased- Up to 3hrs battery life (with screen dimmed)- Quiet- No overheating- Relatively light considering the internals- Easy to access hard drive bays and ram- Stock hard drives are a pair of 500GB Western Digital Scorpio Black-Motherboard supports SATA III 6GB/s interface-Built in ESATA and dual USB 3.0 ports-Video out and charging ports are located in the rear of the notebookOther great features- Quad Core i7 Sandy Bridge- Complete overkill with 12GB of RAM- Nvidia GTX 560M is currently unmatched in mobile graphic in price and performance, and battery consumption (also blows away the GTX 555m)- FULL HD 1080p LED Backlit 15.6" screen, which is gorgeousUnfortunately no backlit keyboard- Mouse touchpad is not multi-touch and scrolling takes some getting used to- Mouse left and right click is a single bar, although not that bad- No express slot- No s-video- DVD drive is not slot loadingOther Thoughts: I replaced the dual 500GB hard drives with a 128GB Crucial M4 SSD and a Seagate 750GB 7200rpm hard drive.
The hard drive truely is the slowest component of modern computers and spending $100 to $200 on a new SSD truly is a worthwhile upgrade for any computer
The good:- small, compact and cool with everyday tasks.
I bought this as a returning college student (over the age of 30).
- -,     ,    .
I Have filed complains with the FTC and the Florida Attorney Generals office.
PROSFast i7 @ 2 GHz (max 2.9 w/ TurboBoost).
Quick boot (30 sec.)
with regular internal drive.
True full HD (1080p).
Purchased this laptop for a friend who wanted something just for casual work.
After several years, it finally died.
This computer arrived password locked.
The biggest problem is that is was taken to Nepal, opened there, and now they cannot use it.
buen vendedor... compra en buen estado, llego en buenas condiciones, sin nungun problema... lo recomiendo 100% para comprar sus productos
I ordered this laptop and exchanged once but, I returned both brand new laptops.
We have one about two years old as well as the one we purchased recently.
Just make sure you get virus protection :(
I bought this laptop for my son in order to take advantage of the free XBOX 360 4GB offer.
My son loves his laptop and he really has no complaints.
The electrical cord does not have a secure connection to the computer and often comes off.
AND SENT FOR USE IN COLOMBIA SOUTH AMERICA.
Month 2 video has developed red screen with lines in it, contacted ASUS they agreed to fix the issue, but decided that that do not do service outside the USA, which includes the APO address it was originally shipped to.
Amazon A-z claims however seems to be working well.
MY DAUGHTER BOUGHT A TOSHIBA LAPTOP A WHILE BACK AND SHE SAID WHAT A GREAT UNIT IT WAS.
THEIR RETURN POLICY IS GREAT
Been using this machine for a few months now.
His family only has a desk top and two girls who must share.
have to return it to to toshiba repair depot.
After opening it and setting everything up, I had to pop in a game to test out the graphics, and I was extremely impressed.
too many internet connection errors as stated above5.
Battery seems to be as they say (last around 5 hours on eco mode).
If you are using a browser window, trying to type info into the address bar will actually open a new window.
After 7 months the laptop will not turn on, Appears to be issues with Windows, DONT BUY!
Monica R
My wife broke her old Dell laptop so I ordered another Satellite L755-S5271 for her in Aug.2011.
500 dollars?
After a little research (quality, speed, price, related customer reviews, etc.)
I found the L755 on Amazon for $499... my jaw dropped, no brainer.. Got the computer home, set everything up, ready to go..
In the first two weeks, I had to send it in to Toshiba for repairs because it kept having blue screens due to (coming with) bad memory.
Now, a couple months later, the hard drive randomly failed on me while trying to load Chrome.
The clock problem is: When ever the computer is shut down, the clock starts going too fast.
For the basic to intermediate needs of 99% of the consumer population, this laptop is a steal.
plenty of hd space for the average personnice glossy "carbon fiber" looks sweetinternal card reader for sd and memstick duo sonywindows 7, very impressed after using mac osx 10.4-10.6 for over 4 years.
She did not want to lug around a full-size laptop, so this 14-inch model is perfect for her.
I plan on swapping it out with a 128Gb SSD as soon as I catch a good sale.###BTW - The volume control IS on the keyboard, you just have to use the FN+3 or FN+4 keys.
I always bought Toshiba laptops and did not care about how bad their customer service is as long as they get the job done but now they are notIF TOSHIBA WANTS PEOPLE TO BUY A $700 LAPTOP AND EXPECT THEM TO THROW IT AWAY AFTER 4 MONTHS, THEY SHOULD LOOK FOR A NEW PLANET TO DO YOUR YOUR BUSINESS IN.
Inconvenient Location of trackpad.
I also had to do a system restore out of the box due to it crashing, after playing with it for 5 hrs to get it stable I decided it was not to be trustedIve got 3 other Toshibas and this one was not up to the same standard.
This product Toshiba Satellite P755-S5274 15.6-Inch LED Laptop (Black) is excellentI am very happy with the performed of this laptop
First computer crashed within 3 weeks, sent it back, got a replacement and it crashed within 3 days.
The replaced one has been trouble free.
oo to have it shipped back for repair.
A perfect computer for both personal and professional use.
however, somebody broke into ,y house and stole it.
The finish on the back hides scuffs, but the matte finish on the inside attracts visible dust daily.
He decided to go with the more "business like" Dell model and I wend for pure specs (within a budget).
As for speed and performance, here are the Windows Performance numbers: (scale of 1.0-7.9)Component Details Subscore Base score - 5.8Processor Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-2410M CPU @ 2.30GHz - calculations per second - 6.9Memory (RAM) 6.00 GB - Memory Operations per Second - 7.4Graphics Intel(R) HD Graphics Family - Desktop Performance for Windows Aero - 5.8Gaming graphics 1696 MB Total available graphics memory - 3D business and Gaming Graphics performance - 6.7Primary hard disk 638GB Free (683GB Total) - HD Transfer Rate - 5.9All in all, a pretty healthy machine.
I had the machine for a little over 2 weeks when the first machine crashes due to bad hard drive.
I come back over to Amazon support where I had to fight over shipping address due to a move but was rectified after I had to insist this is not a normal circumstance since the machine was bought for college.
Besides the bad hard drive on TWO ***NEW*** MACHINES, the computer was/is great.
I ordered a black color laptop, but I sent a computer in gray.
The second generation which is the SandyBrige(newest design intel has come up with so far) design lets your processor work on two things at the same time (hyperthreading technology).
I am not a professional computer programmer; I am just a mom with lots of kids, fulltime college student, small business owner and volunteer addict.
The company that supplied them has been out of business for many years.
This one(I have had Toshibas in the past.... they seem to get progressively worse).
Called Dell and after several attempts it booted up.
I contacted Dell within 21 days and they will NOT provide a refund or take the system back.
I am now, finally after two months of trying, getting them to repair it, but they will not exchange or refund, and I bought a NEW system, now I will have a refurbished lemon.
The same item cost 4 times the price of the Amazon deal (shipping and import costs included).
(Lenovo) I must return.
when i first got the laptop i had to spend 35 minutes with customer service because the wireless internet driver was not installed correctly
Great Laptop being used by Niece for School PurposeEnjoy switch Applications at a Blink of a EyeGreat Notebook.
I called HP again, and they said since I was getting "Script Errors" when trying to install CA Security Centre that I would need to send it in for repair.
They shipped a FedEx Express box, and I packed it up and shipped it off (2 day FedEx Express shipping).
Two or three weeks later, I got a blue screen (ignored it first time).
Good luck and happy laptop shopping!
1st windows machine in 10 years.
Computer is fast and has lots of capacity... the problem is that one of the ram memories came damaged computer was crashing after 5 minutes usage, im actually using this computer with only one of the ram memories(came with two one 4gb the other 2gb)... but is not that bad.
I installed an SSD in the 2nd bay ( cost me $150 and $20 for the cable ).
Made the SSD the boot drive.
He loves it and seeing that is the exact same model as the one I own I can help him out learning the ins-and-outs of the "techy" side of things.
Now dealing with sticking mouse.
and then the monitor went out.
I bought this item (Oct 28, 2011) and had it die a month later.
The unit turns on and then shuts itself off after a few seconds.
the tech support is from India and it was sometimes hard to communicate with them and understand them, but they were helpful.
They way the fix these things - according to the support crew - is by just replacing everything that needs it and unfortunately this usually means that the OS must be re-installed because when parts change, the OS requires it.
Thus your installed apps will be wiped along with your data.
And opening programs takes ages!!
It has DUAL graphic cards, a 6620G (512mb dedicated) and 6750M (1gig dedicated) the combination of the two is a 6755G2 in case anyone wants to read the specs up on that.
Vendor shipped swiftly and received as described.
Setting the wifi connection and printer (Brother network laser printer) was a breeze and Windows 7 looks nicer than XP which I had on my old computer.
They were very professional and patient and did not even ask for serial number, email address, etc, just dived in directly and solved the problem.
Samsung customer service is useless and now the computer is a useless brick sitting in the back of my closet.
Hard drive malfunction caused the laptop to keep crashing.
So now sending it in for repair.
Fortunately, still under warranty but very dissapointed to have to do all this after just 5 months of a brand new computer.
These conflicts only occur when the server shuts down from Micrsoft updates.
The keys are all seperate and there is a number keypad (like a normal desktop keyboard).
The Fast Start technology seems to work as it does wake back up very quickly.
The unit is good, fast, etc.
I love the computer, but when I ran into a problem and called tech support, I got very poor advise, and was put on hold for 1  hours.
I use it dailly bases from home to school.
The list price of $1,049.00 is insane.
Boots up in seconds and logs into the Net quickly.
Be careful with the attachments, internet connection, etc., they are fragile!
As a person who has built his own PCs, is a software reviewer, and who knows his way around CPUs, refresh rates, etc.
Bought for a friend and she loves it.
this is mis leading customer with wrong information.
Ordered the Laptop through Amazon and received within one week.
The Series 9 boots up and is on the internet in a few seconds... literally.
A friend who received my new Sony the day it arrived said she wished she had bought another VAIO last year instead of the other brand she tried which is already useless.
Her 10 year old VAIO now used by her teens is still going strong.
A great laptop, one of the things it doesnt list is the graphics which is powered by intel hd 3000 (still plan on testing out star wars knights of old republic to see the capabilities of integrated graphics) This laptop runs smooth still getting use the high-def screen which tends to make icons smaller.
i had this model and another with dedicated graphics chip but choose this one because of the lower cost which i got $836 only a couple days ago.
Lastly one of the things i liked most about this company is Sony themselves having just retired my three year old sony labtop (still running great) for this one.
Bought this to replace an equivalent red Sony whose monitor died.
The laptop came quickly and appeared to be new and factory sealed.
Computer is password protected and they cannot give me the new password.
The computer arrived with XP installed and configured, with all needed accessories.
a week ago the soundcard died on this laptop.
which took about 2-3 weeks to fix.
it did not come with a recovery disk and i did not create one, so i had to order it from toshiba for $25 and wait 1 week to get it.
friends:danger ; danger!
Ideal for users who mostly work with microsoft office, mail, browse, some nice games for pass-time, etc.
Instead when contacted all they do is send you about 7 hours of troubleshooting tips which do not fix the problem.
I then contacted the seller (circuit city) through amazon and never received a reply.
It was not until I decide to return it and was looking at other laptops that I realized that all these models had the same problem.
Just sharing some observations from the last three months of ownership...
The price per memory (within the Intel i7 processor family) is probably the best on the market.
It also has a 2nd open bay for adding a storage drive (ideal for solid-state drive addition).
Which can be handy for setting up unique environments for different purposes (video watching, playing tunes, business software use, gaming environment, etc.).
For those who want the security or multilingual features, suggest buying the version with Win7 home edition, and then purchase the Win7 upgrade on your own.
It will help save some money.
Timeline touts between 9-4 hrs of battery life respectively for casual web browsing to intense multimedia and multitasking (ie games and video watching).
That is in the media dock, a separate accessory that does have to be plugged in to use.
I have owned various laptops in the past 12 years (Dell, Asus, Alienware, Samsung, Apple, toshiba, NEC, Sony TX), and the Vaio Z2 blows everything away.
I quickly researched the specs when I got back to my hotel room and found it to be the exact laptop I was looking for - Light and slim, powerful, adaptable, strong battery (14hours with the sheet battery), tough design, USB3.
The trackpad and mouse was at first originally horrible, however with the latest vaio update, it is now responsive and easier to use.
Being able to upgrade the powerdock in the future is very viable.
This computer albeit is overpriced however has many features that are now available on other computers.
I sent the device back to Sony in CA and they are the WORST company I have ever dealt with in my life.
In short, Sony claimed that all of the problems with my laptop (less than one year old) were problems that were NOT covered under their "Limited Warranty".
I found this link on another site.
Their repair center has a BBB rating of "F".
the seperate deck for cd and hd show is very practical.
I have purchased two of this laptop in 2012 (one for company work and the other for personal work).
However, my company work laptop is presenting the same problem again, which requires a completely new screen (and now warranty has expired).
Initially bought mac airs... but after several tries, has been running hot and draining batteries faster.
Their support leaves much to be desired and their repair services although professional should be UNNEEDED in the first place.
For example, one laptop purchased in Jan 2010 for $2200 had a faulty WLAN card in May 2011.
Now in Jan 2012, this same exact part has become faulty again.
Of course this is past the 90 day repair warranty!
Cons:- Arrow keys broke within 2 months, the up arrow will not function at all.- Wireless has trouble connecting to many networks no matter how strong the signal is.
I purchased this computer for a friend because he needed one for his small audio shop.
Product was delivered fast and as advertised or better, puirchased two for my sons entering High School to free up my wifes laptop.
Order was placed and it was received in3 days, they said it would take 6-9 under commit and over deliver, well done.
This was an ealry mother days present for my wife.
She "loves it" her words.
It broke in 4 months.
even contacted people selling it to ask questions as it was used, they politely responded with imformative answeres that i was happy with.
still trying to figure why it has office 10 professional claiming standard selling package in its time.
Ive had this bad boy for about 2 months now.
i3 - 3GB - 300GB at price $370 is great deal in Aug-2011.
(Hence 4 star)3.
:(Reducing the stars to 3 only.
You will have to open mother board to access the hidden hard drive.
After one month of purchase and used in US, the laptop was taken to another country by my wife and to be sincere, the functionality is very good.
NOTE: I downloaded the webcam driver from Dell website in order to use the in-bult camera.
My only big issue with this laptop is that it randomly decides a key in which wants to stick... today it is the "n" key.
I bought this for my wife to use for her schooling and she loves it.
After installing the drivers the video card works.
My Lenovo G570 (4334-5VU) Laptop Computer arrived on time and in good condition.
I ordered MBA 13" with 256 SSD and 1.8 i7 CPU,early morning on first day of its release !
update 8/23/11:!)
Your actual cost is not the out of pocket expense, it is the depreciation hit you take when you sell it in three years (IF you sell it, ever :-)Oh yes, as to 11" versus 13".
Best to do this under the guidance of an Apple technician.
Finally, the Sugarsync (cloud) app on Macintosh uses an enormous amount of power top.
I always used Microsoft products and decided to try the MacBook.
my dad is having a little difficulty getting used to the apple platform, having been a lifelong pc user (and not overly adept at that), but the search function and google are great for figuring out how to do something that normally takes a right-click on a pc.
I was requesting for exchange via Amazon.
com but was unable to exchange.
Super awesome speaker with sourrounding sound- anybody once listen to this get captivated3.
12 seconds startup time and 2 second shut down time6.
The newer i7 (Sandy Bridge configuration) is a workhorse!
It is super-duper light compared to the PC monstrosity he was lugging around, the backlighted keyboard are great when viewing a movie and you want to turn the lights off, and we listen to internet radio on iTunes.
Pros:-to many to list!Waiting for the iphone 5 to be realeased to pair along with mba :)
The keys constantly keep moving positions and the trackpad can be clicked only in the right front corner.
And also with incredible power to do almost everything for a regular office requirements.
my goal was save money, get a quality product and save my back and shoulder from further damage.
After 20 years of owning and working with only PC computers I finally (after loving the iPhone) broke down and bought an apple and I am never turning back.
I bought the macbook air for portability reasons since I need to travel very often from one city to other, visit clients, presentations, etc.
Excellent option for an standard use of a notebook (mails, office software, and more...) Very light and easy to transport.
I have had apple products for 20 years,and loved all of them until now.
The Mac is without a dought the best computer in the world!
Battery life is between 5 and 7 hrs, but holds the full charge in sleep mode...
Connection to websites is blazing fast.
Picked it up from Apple store on the launch day.
Need only a wireless external HD , is a perfect computer.
Incredible : there is no possibility to pass outlook files from Mac to PC.
However, they completely did away with the guts of the old one and created a serious portable computer!
I was on the fences between the 13 and 11 as well but after using both for a while in the apple store, I asked myself why I wanted an air to begin with?
Es mi primer intento de pasar a MAC, pero francamente estoy decepcionado... durante la instalacin de arranque, se manifest el "Fallo de Kernel" y no he podido salir del problema.
I recently retired and wanted a ultra-portable notebook to take with me when I travel.
This is a dream notebook.
However, before purchasing you should go to an Apple store (or Best Buy, etc.)
However, after using it for several days, I found that it is not small at all.
Allowed us to do true photo-editing during our expedition.
My argument was that the 11 inch, thou the smallest, lack optic and mass media (SD Card reader).
But for MA Hon, who wanted the unit to be PORTABLE, 11 inch was more than sufficient.
For ma Hon, that was the first Mac, thou not apple product, and Hon still learning how to use the system.
Worry free experience.
But after talking to a few friends whom had their macbooks for 2-3 years (i been through 2 in 2 years).
The muti-tasking dosent cause the system to slowdown at all.
After doing some research and reading reviews I finally decided on the MacBook Pro MD313.
After doing research on the internet I find out that there is a possibility that I may need the logic board replaced.
The cost of replacing it, close to $ 700.
After I get comfortable with different operating system, I think I will be a Mac.
Few items from heavily user:- Battery will need to be flushed every month for better performance.- The machine from time to time get warm due to a third party software that was eating the CPU cycles.- Recommend to get external disk and take frequent backup using the Time machine.
This concerns a Mac Book Pro that was purchased in late 2009.
In both cases I have paid for the repair (for a total of approximately $98 each time).
We have a second Mac Book Pro in the family - purchased in 2008.
Total cost was over $700, of which Apple paid about 1/2.
The same problem is now recurring.
The Amazon Warehouse deal was $882 with tax and overnight shipping.
So this was a real $128 win, with only a little over 2 months lost in warranty.
It arrives one day earlier!!
It has a great OS and great built in software ( iSuite ).. Easy to setup, and then begin working on it.
Got it for my niece for her high school graduation, 5-star rating is based on her reactive and satisfaction with the gift!
The first computer I have purchase which runs on a Mac platform.
Apple store had it for $1199 with tax (I am in CA).
Victor Tay
Also, computer was not properly protected with supportive styrofoam or any materials beside loose "peanuts" -- a real pain when you open box and they fly all over the place.
It crashed for no real reason just two months past the warranty!!!!!
After insisting at the apple store they said that they were noticing a problem but instead of exchanging the piece of crap mac for a new one, they were going to re-image it.
from the moment you open the box , the computer is ready to GO ????
I was very pleased because the computer was sent the day after the purchase.
with the customizations, this mac is literally twice as fast as my late-2008 macbook(4gigs ram, default 5400rpm drive).
Still learning the new operating system coming from a lifetime of PC (and having a blast doing so).
My daughter was very happy with her graduation gift.
She has grown up with Apple computers all through high school.
To to now, this mac works so-so.
I am now temporarily abroad and wondering if I can exchange for a new one when I come back in Fed.
It arrived on time and packaged well.
Phone help is $100.
When we needed to print the apple located the Epson workforce 445.
45 seconds to boot, 15 seconds to sleep; this is a really amazing computer.
:)
I was not sent the login password for the computer (which is frequently asked for when uploading/downloading new programs).
Mike was very open to communicating with me via both email and phone about the computer he was selling.
They conveniently store all of your contact information, calendar events, and e-mails right to your home screen!
and decided to change to Mac (now have iPod, iPhone and Macbook Pro).
cosmetically, the only thing they changed was 2 of the Function keys at the top.
Very important I dont have to renew every year McAfee protection plan for PC.
We have three MacBook Pros in the family and all three have been in for major repairs in the past three months.
Two of them are less than two years old, and the third is less than three years old.
Apple is not in this business to help anyone but their bottom line.
This one only came with a charger)?
I wish I had made the change from Windows to the Mac years ago!
now 3 months after owning a macbook i love it.
It is very easy to use(as far as learning how MacOS operates).
The software is easy to use and also contributes towards a postive experience.
After being a PC user for over 30 years, I decided to join the Mac family.
We bought this for our daughter who is a professional traveler.
She uses it to file her expense reports and loves this computer for its size and power.
Purchased a month before the new one came out.
Love the computer.
I have been an Apple laptop owner for the last 6 years now.
Greatest computer, to carry with you when traveling.
I ordered mine recently and I got it 2 days ago..
Happy happy happy to be back on mac.
Todos los programas al 100%.
The computer runs very quietly (when not playing heavy duty games)!
The computer finally reached of point of not even booting up only three months after we received it from Hapon.
I finally took it to an Apple Specialist who evaluated it and said the hard drive was not original and was damaged - two sided tape (rather than a hard drive bridge) was used to hold the hard drive and other components in place, and over time the tape had melted leaving the components to shift around and also leaving a sticky residue - one USB port was not even functional - other components were completely missing - the logic board was damaged -  and on and on.
I contacted the seller and he refused to make good on a very expensive purchase.
The best place to puchase items is from Amazon.
The computer was in excellent condition and I plan to go to a Apple Store to learn how to use this laptop.
The computer works great and is really cool to dual boot with both Lion and Windows 7 - However, after just about a week, was doing research on the web and pressed down on the mouse pad and it cracked - no extra pressure, no gaming - just normal everyday use.
The machine turns on and off quickly.
Windows is a work beast, and Mac is heavily tuned for casual and home computing.
We get a laptop with school.
Battery life is not even in the same zip code as they claim it should be misrepresentation for an out right lie on Apples part.
Amazon sells it for about a fifth of what they want.
Pick an windows laptop for one third the price and do the same job.
It survived the harsh environment.
Have a great life =)
One week after receiving the unit I started to have serious problem with blue screen appearing on during starting process.
If I have luck and reballing will solve the problem, then the costs will not kill me, but if it is a logic board problem and it needs to be replaced (over 700 bugs!!!)
Will recomend to friends
I use "prime" shipping with amazon and received it in 1 business day.
For anyone that buys from Amazon frequently, go with the prime plan.
The down side to this purchase, my wife wants one now.
No damage at all to either box, and my daughter was very happy to see that Amazon helpedSanta out this year, as she has wanted a Mac forever!!
When I take to apple store they said they can not change just they keyboard, because they unable to unscrew the bolt, and need change everithing including logic board and it will cost 700$.
we run both Mac & Windows on these machines.
Will never go back to windows.
I am used to regular PC, however until now the experience is good.
Product arrived on time and was packaged very securely.
He uses it for business.
I have been an iFAN since 2008. i bought the first iPhone, an iMac and a Mac Book (white) in my first time I enter in a Apple Store.
SHE TAKES TO SCHOOL FITS IN HER SCHOOL BAG AND LOVES IT.
However, the competition even surpassed the trailblazer.
This computer can use for personal and business.
:)
The computer is quite updated compared to my macbook from four years ago... and the ninety-day call number for help has been tremendous.
My fiancee was so happy when he got his package!!!
Also bought a sleeve to protect the laptop when I leave the house with it.
Apparently, this is a known issue on the MBA for the past couple years.
helps him at school and at work.
Just bought back soon, a screw off screw and can not fix it.
Use it in a medical setting seeing patients.
Never got the upgrade promissed to the new operating system as advertised computer good but would like upgrade advertised for product
It crashed within 6 months.
Tim Cook has recently stated that Apple is not a hardware company.
The Mac Office software is gone.
However, the battery lasts only 5 hours, which is a major trade-off.
Light, fast (for basic productivity and Internet), with great battery life and OSX.
I ordered the MacBook after having to return the Asus Zen Book.
Tried to transfer files from Time Machine backup disk.
Warranty and laptop were returned.
After using the macbook air, I decided to trade in my old 13 inch macbook for a second MBA.
Great computer for traveling or someone who needs to be mobile a lot.
My OS has crashed repeatedly by ways of the dreaded "gray screen of death" when having started it up.
They keep going, and keep going at the same rate they started at, quick, and efficient.
The only moving part (the fan) breaks all the time and it is very noisy.
What other companies do these days?
However, first day the laptop could not connect to my home wireless network.
I had also try again at work place, and friend home.
The base 2012 13" aIr arrived this afternoon and it is beautiful.
It arrived in a couple iof days via prime and no tax.
There is no hard drive to hiccup and start ups are blazing fast.
Apple takes great care of their software, hardware and customers so any issues that may arise will be handled by the foremost company in the technology field of today.
Was going to purchase another HP computer.
Also, it protects ur keyboard from anyone who uses ur laptop with dirty food-ridden fingers.
The laptop is great and agree with the other reviews.
Apple lost it and they are now too big to be customer focus like in the earlier days.
(Total accident) These are built to last.
:)
Easy to set up and get started.
What other company puts out a product even close for only $1100?
Money is well spent on this one.
I had it for 8 months, and it just passed the out of warranty date (it is a 2012).
F U Apple, and "Always Deal."
The initial product shipment was defective (hard disk not recognized) so resulted in a week delay before replacement received.
As a college student, I constantly need a computer that I can slip into a small space and take out again when needed.
Also, the MacBook Air starts up very quickly.
You can quickly open you Mac and take notes with no delay.
However, it is also very useful for many other areas.
I was looking for a Macbook for many months to set up a music server and had searched several online places for the best deal.
I made the decision to take a chance after initially contacting the seller.
Small but is a well oiled machine id never go back to windows again.
Easily migrated from the old Mac Book air to the new one using the migration assistant.
When I know the new model is announced, I jumped on the old model and save hundreds of dollar.
We are currently researching some ways to run wordperfect using virtual pc software.
Bought this for my daughter who is about to go to college.
The thunderbolt output will only suppot 2 monitors if they are the Apple 27" at $1000 apiece.
Super fast with free upgrade to Mountain  Lion.
gets very hot in the back when gaming4.
I bought this computer and two weeks later apple sell a new one cheaper !!
This laptop is a dream to work on.
Got rid of her HP and went the Apple route.
You falls in love with it in about 20s after turn it on.
After only 8 months.
But after these many years, I finally decided to make a switch a few years back and have never regretted for a single second.
The game here is to train the technology sheep; and then feed them hardware fodder; and once they get their fill; they will follow wherever you take them.
(mostly to their banks to withdraw some more money to hand over)
An ultimate dream!
Now, of course if you are planning on running huge programs that require tons of RAM then this is not the computer for you.
TecMonkey does not stand behind their products and it they fail past 30 days - there is no recourse.
Purchased two Lenova desktops, the monitor went out after 90 days and they refused an solution.
My dream system from my child hood days.
Will definitely buy another mac when this one gets old as well!
My husband wanted to give one to his brother and his wife and one for us.
The only drawback is one which is known from the outset for Microsoft users and that is the fact that you have to employ an additional step or two to get the programs to run.
I ordered this on Monday and the price dropped US30 a day after, and Amazon refund the difference after I email them.
However, the computer felt erratic several times (cursor disappeared, computer froze several times).
Beginning of Oct 2013, the computer died after some regular upgrades (including iTunes).
In  a nutshell, got my computer after 21 days.
Sent it to Dell, gone a week, when it returned is was worse than before.
Ordered it through Galactica (an Amazon store).
Then went to uninstall the first item of bloatware - crash.
Windows 7 Professional15.6" ScreenIntel core i5 duo 2.60 GHz with 4 logical processorsIntel turbo booster to 3.30 GHzFingerprint readerEnergy starHighest performance score; 7.1 out of 7.9Lowest performance score; 5.9 out of 7.9Many Security features;1.
Private and hidden disc to store sensitive information.3.
Remotely shred information when laptop is stolen; pinpoint location and lock laptop.
The reviewer "Lauren", who says that the price of this item is $500 over the list price at Apple Store, is wrong.
The reason is she is mistaking this for the base model which has only 128 Gb RAM, while this one has 256 Gb RAM.
Also, the base model comes with a i5 (1.6 Ghz Dual Core Intel processor), while this one comes with an i7 (1.8 Ghz Dual Core Intel processor).
This exact model is $1,649.99.
This computer has a known faulty system board which will sooner or later leave the owner with a perfectly useless laptop, myself being one of them.
Bought one last year for working at home, watching movies on the internet, and traveling overseas (I do heavy work even when traveling so a tablet is not an option).
Watch out for the new Lenovo ideapads that have just been announced the Lenovo Ideapads Y400/Y500, they got back lit keyboards and the ability to swap out optical bays called ultrabays that let you add a second graphics card in SLI, a freaking 14 inch laptop that is actually 13.6 inches wide with SLI, HAH, amazing!
The power adapter is plugged in but the system does not recognize the adapter.
Dell has trouble shooted the problem over the phone, sent a technician out to replaced the mother board and adapter 5 times now.
They refuse to refund my money or exchange the system.
Search Google "Alienware M17x power issues".
Keep up the good work MSI, and amazon: keep selling their products!
This laptop has been a great buy, runs everything well (BF3,MW3,Skyrim,WOW,Star Wars the old republic etc.
ive re installed windows on it, using a Windows ultimate disk, and then just downloaded the drivers for it .
After 3 months of research, I ended up buying this one.
I was on the hunt for a laptop to replace a 3 year old HP dv7 3000, which at the time was top of the line.
at less than 1,000, you get a second gen i7 sandy bridge with 1gb (upgradable to 2gb) of dedicated graphics.
boot up time was around 40 seconds for first time, and around 30 after that for initial power up.
I bought this laptop from OfficeMax when it was on sale for $369 - $50 in store coupon for computers a couple weeks ago for a total $319.
I bought it for my elderly mother, and she is happy with it.
He was able to take it out of the box and go right online!
After a lot of research online, I decided to buythis laptop.
After readingthe review of another owner who found it very good,but with very poor interior speakers.
Has 4gb ram, plenty of harddrive space (640gb) and 3 usb 2.0 slots.
The Sony Vaio S is pretty close to a perfect fit for our business travelers.
using the sony software it would take over 4 hrs to create a 17gb blu ray.
The laptop is over heated, even fro the first day.
Details... Intel Core i7, 1080p & Blu-ray Disc (Read/Write).
Also The Screen, At 1080, Is Perfect For Windows 8 Start Screen, Movies, Live TV Using Media Center & My Sony Camera (DSC-TX100V (Also A Very Good Purchase)) Has 1080 Still Image & AVC-HD 1080/60p Video.
Sony VAIO EG2 Series VPCEG26FX/B 14-Inch Laptop (Charcoal Black)I used the computer three times and he died.
I purchased this item (not through Amazon) after doing some research online visiting various sites.
However Sony advertising pop ups come up frequently.
He loved the light weight system and sleek design.
My wife is very happy with her new laptop.
It does everything she wants it to do and was very easy to set-up including wireless internet
Once out of the box I proceeded to connect to the Internet and made the three recovery discs using blank DVD + R discs.
Takes like an hour to get rid of the bloatware that Sony puts on their computer.
Good luck hopes this helps.
The Sony Vaio just  arrived as promised and my wife loves it best anniversary gift she was in shock when she opened the box.
After about 10 uses and only 6 weeks after purchase, unit went totally dead.
Sony "customer service"( a term used loosely) has promised, promised and promised to make it repair and has failed to deliver on every account - changing story every time an inquiry is made - never actually doing anything promised.
This is not a knock on Amazon as purchased elsewhere - just trying help everyone else considering this brand.
The first few months i was happy with the product then all of a sudden it decides to start heating up.
In the meantime i bought then accident warranty which extends the protection for 2 years.
Turns out the heat sink was just the beginning, few months later the power source stopped working and they did replace it.
then again in a month the mother board crashes, they take a whole month to replace it.
Then finally the keyboard stops working.
From this day on i have decided never to buy another sony product ever again.
Bought this laptop for my wife to use for her masters studies and she it very useful.
They called me and said the found the problem, but the parts they needed for the repair were on back order (factory service center out of parts???)
Called support and after going through numerous steps with the technician the computer went dead again.
Addendum:Three months later my computer began to crash.
Went through the call service, get a box, send in the computer ritual again.
After going through another 2  week cycle to get the computer fixed and returned I opened the box and the computer is totally dead.
Waited three days for the box and sent in the computer.
The computer was received at the service center at noon on Monday 3/18/2013.
Days passed and heard nothing.
I finally called on 3/26/2013 to see what was going on and was told by the agent that they had no information and that they would have to open a case and someone would call me back.
Scorecard for the last 4 1/2 monthsTime in service:  2 months and countingParts out of stock:  TwiceRepairs requiring rework:  100%Times sent to service:  4Customer satisfaction:  0
I purchased this product due to Vaio reputation, I received the product and on initial boot up I noticed across the lower edge of the display LED backlight shining through, also light areas throughout the display, after that I noticed the speakers have a transistor radio like sound (tinny,treble) and there are no settings to change this, the F7 key was also crooked.
they wanted to set up an appointment for a repair technician to see if it could be fixed?
Support should have offered to send a new unit out with a return RMA tag prepaid shipping to replace the defective computer!!!
Instead I paid $32.00 out of pocket to have the unit returned for a fefund.
After contacting Sony and getting no help at all from them even thou it is still under warranty...
Bought This product about 15 day ago, found out the machine had a problem.
This is one of the lightest 15" laptops on the market (barely over 4 pounds).
Currently the lighest 15" is the Samsung Series 9 however that one has no CD/DVD drive and has lower resolution.
One memory card failed after two months.
Upon checking in with DELL, unlike other DELL items bought on- line, this item had zero warranty.
The computer freezes constantly and refuses to turn off.
After going through two Toshiba Satellites in the past seven years it was time for a change.
Computer "pooped" out after a year and a half.... blue screen of death .... junk laptop and ZEEMO confirmed sending me an email letting me know I was a "looser" (sic)
Will Definatly buy from this seller again.. worry free service and product :-)
Had this for about three years.
This Sony replaces a 6 year old 14" Sony.
Perfect for a travelling needs or a student.
However, after it loads, the apps run very fast and smooth.
This was a great laptop for the money but it died after 23 months.
Has USB 3.0, E-SATA/Powered USB(on the left side, different with the pictures on Amazon), HDMI, SD card reader.4.
The fan is a little noisy when running on full speed (CPU usage > 90%).2.
I am a graduate student and this is perfect for carrying to and from school everyday.
I purchased a Portege with prior experience (a Portege with SSD).
This computer is perfect for my son with 500G hard drive for his teenage junk (iTune stuff and more).
I returned after couple of days.
Computer shopping can be overwhelming, but the stats on this unit (see comparisons in CNET reviews) made it an easy purchase that did not break the bank.
We purchased a Toshiba Satellite Pro R840 laptop for our 13 year old son.
He chipped in birthday money to make this purchase.
Volume Control - In this day & age - they dont have a simple single button for volume control - u hv to do it in conjunction with function key or something more complicated(yet to figure out after having the laptop for over 4 months!!)Really??
My previous HP laptop had several of these handy controls 5 years ago... & it wasnt even unusual back then3.
Sound - has really bad default sounds & music set up (eg.
It seeems small - but it is really annoying when u hear it again & again.
After hemming and hawing about finally purchasing a laptop to replace my barely functioning desktop, I did the research and comparisons and settled on my Toshiba Satellite R845-S85 from Amazon.
As I now discovered, this is a reoccurring problem with this computer.
I purchased this laptop during the Amazon golden deal time with the price of $599.
In Apr 2012, the new laptop was not able to be turned on.
I spent much money to hire data recovery company to get some of my data back.
Our system went down at our Honda Dealership on a SATURDAY!!
Apart from the fact that i bought this at $739 and then the price suddenly dropped to $649 (loosing $90).
Toshiba says, they cannot honor the warranty from Amazon purchase.
Needed to fight to get the call opened.
I upgraded from a 4 year old ASUS laptop that used Vista Business as an Operating system.
This was a purchase for my 13 year old who is going into high school.
My 13 year old can happily play his online computer games and can also use it for word processing (the software of which did not come with the laptop regretably).
Toshiba Satellite R845-S85 14.0-Inch LED Laptop - Graphite Blue Metallic with Line Pattern.
I had been considering purchasing this computer for several months but I was a bit reluctant to order a computer online even from Amazon; preferring to buy locally for a more hands on experience.
com/#/watch?v=SNTS2brEr4c&desktop;_uri=%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DSNTS2brEr4cAMAZON SHOULD COMPLETELY REMOVE THIS ITEM FROM THEIR STOCK... since Toshiba is a ghost company... they DONT EXIST!!!!....
Came well packaged and easy to set up.
Imagine a brand new 1500$ laptop that is a week old and you have to pay for support?
After shopping locally for a new computer for my 78-year old mother, I settled on this one.
This laptop was taken care of and crashed while backing up to an external drive.
Using in a work environment and no problems networking, etc.
I bought this computer a month ago for $599.99.
Battery life under normal use is 2 to 2.5 hours with the supplied battery.
Get back to you in 6 months!lms
She was able to set it up completely on her own, and has been using it often.
Easy to use for this girl, best product for the money.
Ordered during a TODAYS HOURLY DEALS, paid $399.
Received OK and all is well until the next morn when Office Depot putsa series 755 on sale for $369.
The Toshiba laptop was a gift for my son, who lives in Las Vegas.
He was thrilled with the computer and found everything in order - and it was very easy to set up .
Have always been a Dell customer however recently their quality has gone down.
This laptop is the one im using to wright my reviews it was a great buy the same computer at my local Staples Store was $100 higher i received free two day shipping on this product and it has been by my side ever since
Easy to order and quick delivery.
Toshiba Satellite L755-S5349 15.6-Inch LED Laptop - Fusion Finish in Matrix Silver
Battery dies with out warning in the middle of a game.
Mac gives warning and if it dies it starts back up where you left off.
Toshiba Satellite L755 - S5349 15.6 Inch LED Laptop - Fusion Finish is great, Wonderfull design.
To all the fake reviews, get a life.
Iam tired of companys lying to the public with false statements to sell there product.
My daughter needed a laptop with certain specifications for college next semester.
We researched several laptops, and all of the ones we had looked at that had what she needed were over $500.
It may not be great for someone doing a lot of gaming; but she uses it mainly for school work, drawing with her graphics tablet, some photo editing, and the usual online activities (facebook, chat, email, ect.
), so it is perfect for her...... and Mom was very happy with the price.
Downloading is superfast and surfing the internet is a breeze.
DON:T BUY TOSHIBA!!
Hard drive crashed after 18 months.
And worse, do not live in united states.
The computer was a gift for my Grandson who thought he went to heaven-great X-mas gift.
Toshiba sent a BIOS file which resulted in a VERIFY ERROR and subsequent system failure.
I had to ship it back after owning it for less than two months at my own expense... they charged $25 for a "special shipping box" and refused to waive the fee.
Within ten years they will be working for the Chinese.
Toshiba Satellite L755-S5349 15.6-Inch LED Laptop - Fusion Finish in Matrix Silver
I needed to get my mother a new laptop and this was a great buy, she loves her new toy.
Bought for use at school.
Called Toshiba support and a replacement was sent immediately.
This laptop was used lightly inside for a total of three months before it stopped working.
When we finally got through to warranty service, found that there is a $29.96 shipping charge to return the laptop under warranty.
Hard-drive was replaced by Toshiba in 11 days including shipping time.
Thank goodness we used an external usb enclosure reader to retrieve the data before sending off.
Toshiba warranty is from original purchase date, and it is a $160 cost to buy an extended warranty to get a diagnosis over the phone.
IS THIS AVAILABLE TO CHANGE NEW ONE?I LIVE IN BRONX, NY ... WHERE IS REPAIR SHOP OR WARRANTY SHOP ?PLS.
This laptop burned through three chargers in the 1st year.
My last Toshiba Satellite has now become property of my daughter and is still running.
I plan on man years of service out of this computer as well.
The adapter that they installed is a Realtek that is six years old and really lacks in proformance.
They put two small memory chips inside.
So in order to upgrade and max it out you have to buy two chips instead of one, another hundred bucks.
In December, Toshiba posted a "critical update".
They wanted roughly $30 for the keyboard, and $35 for labor.
Today, I sent the computer back for yet ANOTHER new hard drive.
Save the hassle and pick a different company.
After some research, I discovered that I am not alone.
My daughter has two Toshiba laptops and she is happy with hers.
I called warranty help line and they asked me to sent the laptop for repair, but asked me to pay for shipping.
My son loves his new laptop.
Does NOT have the "fast clock" issue.
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Buyer Beware  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$Less then 6 months ago, (July 2012),  I purchased a described as new laptop from reseller SoCalDeals.
Last month is started to overheat and shut down, to this day I have not been able to get it repaired.
This is deceiving when using Microsoft Office as a search when purchasing.
We are trying to get it fixed, but totally frustrating to have a new laptop fail within months.
Adorama ships for free, and they ship the original box inside another box full of air pillows.
A lot of computers are now selling with Windows 8.
Her laptop had gotten old and was starting to have problems.
However, within a few weeks, the USB ports became loose and then were inoperative.
They will not return or exchange the equipment after you open it.
Now i have to wait another two weeks or so to send it back to the manufacturer for repairs.
Muy bien todo, el producto llego en excelente estado a mi pas, y por ende el producto cumpli con las especificaciones mencionadas en la oferta.
Seems to be fast and work well except for not being able to hook up to the internet at a local library.
Broke a week after warranty end.
Excelente computador, es sumamente rpido, la batera tiene un muy buen rendimiento, los grficos son excelentes, estoy muy contento con mi laptop, la recomiendo al 100%.
One is used for Family Tree Maker and the other is for HR Block and photos.
If you are a "hardcore gamer" you will want a laptop with a separate graphic card (discreet graphics) but you will also want to spend roughly twice the amount of money as well.
MB died in the first 3 months, toshiba replaced and fixed that fast and well but a year after that the sound card on the MB died.
The Toshiba Satellite brand has performed well and proved to be durable and sufficient for a college kid.
The laptop has the right amount of RAM and hard drive space to make college work (and play) easy to handl.
Have been using this system for a couple of weeks now and love it.
Cons - Dell bloatware.
Since then, we have had 4 major repairs (cursar pad, wifi connection antenea, 2 hard drives!!!!)
Last one while my son was in the middle of a major college project.
All data not backed up was lost.
By default, the lights are "dim" (aka... unreadable) when you power it up.
The lights will come back on when you start typing again.
I would prefer to (a) change the default brightness to high and (b) increase the time before the lighted keys turn off.
Dell Inspiron 17RV i17RV-3529DBK 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black)I purchased this notebook for my daughter.
She lives overseas where technology products are more expensive than in the US.
She is very happy, gratefull for having this one.
With a spill resistant keyboard and drop zone hard drive, this notebook will take the daily knocks of the regular commuter.
The headphone jack works off and on.
I ordered this laptop after searching the net for like 2-3 days.
I ordered this for $549 on amazon on black Friday(Got a nice deal, eh!).
I know the review is kind of late, but i got this steal of a deal for $570 back in January.
when it comes to using heavy duty software like photoshop, illustrator the computer keeps hanging.
Bought one of these for someone who is in the IT field and is mobile - he absolutely loves it.
Aluminum cover (top and around keyboard.
)Cons:Plastic Bottom.
Second memory module location is located under the keyboard.
)Great computer for what is paid.
Very fast with i7 processor and it has 8GB of SSD they call express cash for the extremely fast boot up and start up from wake mode.
During setup I partitioned the backup drive way to big (500GB) mistake.
After 10 months I have to send it in to be repaired.
They have miss-placed built-in microphone.
I had a Pavillion DV6917nr and was good but gets too hot when gaming with Flight Simulator, until the mainboard fails and then the repair costs almost $380, so I decided to buy a new one.
This time I decided to give a try to Toshiba, and found this one at the unbelievable price of $350!.
:)
5 STARS BASED ON THE LAPTOP COST*****************PROS*********************Windows 7 x64 home premium*3GB, Expandible to 8GB*AMD Radeon HD 6320 graphics with 384 MB - 1459 MB (not a gamer laptop but you sure can run some PC games with higher graphics such as Tomb Raider Underworld)*15.6 inch display trubrite LED with native 720P resolution do the work for movies and HD videos.
battery life is pretty bad; about two (2) hours max on a full charge, but other than that winning!
The spacebar problem, however continues to bebothersome even after having the computer since November.
The power cord is straight instead of L shaped, this resulted in failure after 11 months, great computer bad power cord.
We "carried" her to our dinner table and she joined us in prayer and food.
My old 2003 Toshiba Satellite was running on its last leg after a hard life working in the field.
However once installed applications load fast and are responsive (AutoCad, MatLab, Maple, Labview).
The reason for 4-stars is the location of the USB and other periphery ports, they are all located on the sides of the laptop near the front.
The location makes it very awkward to use as the cables are constantly in the way of books, notepads and other equipment.
We purchased this in Mid December 2011.
He wanted it for schoolwork AND some computer games.
It can run his new favorite game: Skyrim without a problem.
Now he takes this laptop everywhere.
sending quickly.
Wanted to a get a new moderatly-priced laptop while you can still find them with Windows 7.
To date, we have had laptops from Gateway, HP, Dell, Sony, and now Toshiba.
However the drivers are a crime against humanity.
it is broken when it arrived, shutdown no reason everyday and after 4 months it broken totally.
not convenient from china to USA by mail
Good deal for the money.
The battery can theoretically work for 9-10 hours, but most uses (internet, basic graphics) reduce this quickly.
How to increase the battery life.
Fingerprints do show up and it can get slippery but I clean it, only take it out when ready to type up, wipe it down, back in pouch.
Have been using this computer for about 30 days now, and have no complaints.
:)
The machine arrived when promised and in good shape - is very intuitive with automated loadings of my drives, printers, etc.
This computer was bought for school and everyday use.
;)
Received 1 day early during a holiday season in original packaging.
This computer was a steal :)
(due diligence, caveat emptor, etc.)
My 3rd unit which is just outside warranty has now crashed as well.
I bought the HP Pavilion Notebook for my daughter as a Christmas present, boy did her eyes light up when she opened it.
My mom purchased 2 of these computer back in November.
She said over $1000 per computer.
When she opened hers an plugged into the power, he computer would not turn on.
She was able to return hers for a refund.
When being on the internet I CONSTANTLY got the message "not responding".
Two computers from the same seller and they were both crap!
As a side note, even though H. P. has a huge computer contract where my wife works they currently only deploy Dell computers due to the H. P. computer failure rate.
Bought this computer and within two weeks the computer was crashing.
They changed to another one with same model.
UPDATE 12th November 2011I decided to return this laptop to amazon for a refund.
The Video card switching feature (6770 when using videos/games/ect.
Most driver updates have to come stright from HP instead of their site (example : the drivers for the 6770HD graphic).-Other Thoughts: Package came fast, and wonderful support from HP that makes you realize they really care about their products.
Been researching a long time between dv6 6172,6173,6180.
This computer came in a good packaging, brand new.
We are ready to buy a laptop and this HP meets our needs.
However, it is on sale at Office Max with a $100 discount, for $579.99.
Seller says they do not warranty after 90 days!
Sandy Bridge processor in an ASUS system w/ W7 for under $300 was a no-brainer.
Installed Advanced System Care to optimize - defrag, clean up shortcuts & registry.
What I received was exactly opposite from what I ordered!
This item arrived 3-4 days after I placed the order around 12/19.
LOVE the Sony VAIO laptop computer!
Perfect for student.
HP IS NOW CHINESE MADE JUNK THAT WILL ONLY WORK FOR 1 YEAR MAX.
THEY LASTED OK WHEN TREY WERE MADE IN SINGAPORE.
Buy at your own risk, they are getting out of the computer business for a reason.
new battery still goes a long (4 hours and half).
when my sister saw it she order a g575.
The screw that held the hinge to the body from the back is nowhere to be found.
It became worse, that normal opening and closing of the laptop broke the plastic cheaply-made casing.
Fortunately, the unit is still under warranty, after 10 months.
They were very professional in dealing with my warranty claim.
Reluctantly, I agreed to pay for the shipment.
I was also able to follow the progress on their website.
THEN ANOTHER WEEK GONE BY STILL SAME STORY,I WAS TO CONTACT ATTORNEY GENERAL AND BBB AS THEY KEPT MY COMPUTER HOSTAGE AND SAID I WILL HAVE TO SEND IN $300.00 TO GET IT BACK.
The screen is clear and bright and the Intel HD 3000 video is everything needed for everyday use (of course this is not a gaming machine).
One of these went to my 10 year old son and he can play internet based games like Minecraft and Roblox with ease and with good video response.
Used to own Lenovo when they were IBM Thinkpads.
Sending in for repairs (had to pay shipping) and will see where that gets me.
After days of research, on the internet and at the library, I decided on the Lenovo.
are placed where they are convenient to use.
Prime member.
Essentially they want you to pay again for the software you already payed for when you purchased the computer.
I bought the laptop 10 months ago and now some kind of hard disk problem prevents Windows from starting.
Computer arrived on schedule and in perfect condition.
The ease with which I was able to network all of our computers that also run Windows 7 and are connected to an internet router was amazing.
I decided to order it via amazon.
Could be numerous variables shipping etc.=The aligning of the lid is off, again minor and hardly noticeable.=The rubber support tabs on the bottom are loose.=Sharp palm rest=Slow hard drive (5400 rpm) installing an ssd can dramatically enhance users experience=Minor flexing on the top of the lid; have not checked the keyboard
One of my friend suggested to buy this one as he had purchased a similar model.. After i brought this i have no complaints.
The real question is however, IS THE TRACKPAD A DEAL BREAKER?
And for a pretechie student, thats the ace in the hole.
This also happened when inputting username and passcode information.
I returned the laptop to Amazon/Price Pros and received a refund within two weeks.
The external power port is connected to the motherboard which is easily broken.
This will cause the whole laptop to break and will cost $500 to fix.
Me & my husband both use it at home and on flights since we travel a lot now that were retired.
m money wasted.
Product arrived on time and as advertised.
Purchased this for my son, who is a soldier in the Army.
Sony VAIO VPCEG33FX/W 14-Inch Laptop (White)Sony VAIO VPCEH34FX/B 15.5-Inch Laptop (Black)Sony VAIO VPCEG33FX/B 14-Inch Laptop (Black)Sony VAIO VPCEG34FX/B 14-Inch Laptop (Black)The biggest negative with Vaio is the  lack of availability of 3rd party repairs/parts.
First battery is not working and after some days facing disturbance with the Beats audio speaker .
The Computer was good - decently fast and responsive.
Proud owner for 9 months and no problems.
eritech international definally lives up to there expectations
He dropped is last laptop to many times.
He can play SWTOR, Skyrim, ME3 and a few other newer games with no problem (and do school work).
Beautiful, Light, Slim, Cam&Mic embeded, Bluetooth, Quick, etc.
When my niece saw the laptop and how well it worked for me she asked me to order her one for college and she is very happy with hers also.
Built in web cam.
the notebook was purchased for my girl friend and she like the notebook.
the placement of the built in mic is located on the keyboard.
because the mic is located on the keyboard, the internal fan and other internal noise can be heard when you are using skype (or other voip app).
because her hands are on the keyboard it covers the mic which make her voice sound droned out and when she is typing it creates additional noise.
Started giving problems six months after its first use.
The only negatives are the soft (dead) keyboard and the marginal speaker volume.
And if you plan on signing up for the ASUS Accidental  Damage Protection program, good luck.
It cost me $80.00 to have the operating system reinstalled and have a virus removed.
The technician also discovered it originally had Windows Vista operating system which was sometime changed to Windows XP Pro.
It continues to indicate a "USB device connected is not recognized"... when no device is connected!
Ive had a couple small problems with this series over the years (camera quit - didnt miss it, battery gives out a year into owning my first one).
Now, 8 months later, all the problems are back and so is the horrible customer service.
Did the research prior to purchase.
This Dell was a full replacement from the Dell XPS M1330 - which I bought fully loaded and burned out after eight months of medium use, and again a year later, because they built the graphics card on the motherboard.
I recently purchased an HP laptop for my daughter.
After I placed the order I was informed the specific laptop that I had ordered was on back order, since I needed the laptop immediately, they offered to upgrade the laptop and shipped it to us via express mail.
Some Windows updates are taking up tons of space on the Hard drive.
the 2 fans in the back grealtly help cycle the heat as well as the aluminum case helps absorb the heat and keeping the surface cool.
A bit heavy, but great battery lifeHowever, a year and 10 days after the purchase (i. e. 10 days after the warranty expired), it stopped powering on.
Bought this laptop in April 2012, a few months later the laptop would spontaneously shut down after a few minutes of use.
After some investigation, I discovered that the fan was shutting off right after BIOS and the laptop was overheating.
Shipped and received quickly.
Differences vs typical rog g74sx-xxxx-2GB of VRAM instead of 3GB-128 Bit instead of 256-2D vs 3D Panel-1600x900 instead of 1920x1080 Panel-No Bluetooth-No Blu-ray-Smaller HDDs (500s instead of 750s)
I actually work on computer hardware and software for various clients, in the field, mobile.
The computer arrived with Windows Vista on it, an operating system I hate with a passion and spent many years cursing as I was forced to use it at work.
Also, the computer was advertised as having Windows 7 on it.
I contacted the seller, sent the computer back and received the reloaded computer with Windows 7 Ultimate on it.
The response time from the seller (who lives on the opposite side of the United States) was remarkable fast, especially as we had a major holiday in the middle of the mailing back and forth.
I purchased this computer based on the G Series computer I currently have at home.
After researching the matter with the manufacturer it was stated that the higher speed would be achieved when called upon by system utilization and not as part of normal operation.
From off, the laptop booted to a clickable (no hourglass) desktop in 1 minute 30 seconds.
Pay attention to the audio jack.
When open, push the cover down a little at audio jack.
when close, make sure audio jack in first and push up a little at audio jack.
However, just before its 2nd anniversary, the left hinge broke.
After three months the hinges got loose and started spoiling the LCD frame.
It replaced my wifes Gateway laptop she has owned since 2003 and which cost over $2,300.
Transferring all the old contacts, loading Office 2010 and the hardest part getting Bejeweled Blitz to work on Face book.
Delivered on time and as advertised.
This is the perfect laptop for viewing media & personal use.
The disk drive was broke.
had to send the laptop back after spending hours on the phone now waiting again to get it back.
I guess this comes of ordering a computer on line and not going to the store.
Hard Drive Crashed after only having the computer for 4 months and with very little usage.
I HAD TO DO RECOVERIES EVERY OTHER WEEK (WIPE THE COMPUTER CLEAN AND START OVER) AND FINALLY THEY REPLACED IT.
Great for a student with basic computer needs.
I called and sent it to Samsung (they provided UPS label); they returned it stating it had been fixed.
They refused to replace it; but, they fixed it.
Within a few months the problem reappeared.
Be prepared to void the warranty as the hatch is tamper-sealed.
Laptop was received quickly from Beach Audio.
MSI needs to learn how to service customers immediately and with proper procedures.
I got a MSI GT780r after 2 weeks got an RMA# send it back, the laptop arrived yesterday at MSI headquarters...
Purchased about 2 weeks ago.
=)
The power cord is heavy (as they all seem to be).
We bought this laptop to replace a six year old Acer (Win XP).
Have a hard time buying another computer over the internet again.
After going through 3 HPs, 2 Dells and a panasonic over the past 8 years I decided I was going to go for quality versus cheapest.
With moderate usage depending on th enumber of programs running the battery lasts between 3-4 hours.
This the third Toshiba laptop our family has purchased in the past few years.
I was on vacation soon after I bought this product.
When I came back, the returning time was expired.
But the problem came back again only after two days.
A few days later a "Customer Relations Manager" from Toshiba called and basically said the display defect was somehow caused by my use and was not covered.
He then went on to offer to fix it for an amount over $300.
Based on my experience, they do not stand behind their products.
Los 2 unicos 2 problemas son:En las especificaciones dice 4 GB RAM 1x4GB, y en realidad son 4 GB RAM 2x2GB, entonces para aumentar la RAM toca cambiar de memoria.
The computer was returned mid December 2012.
According to Toshiba spec sheet for this model shows i5-2430M CPU which provides 2.4GHz (3.0GHz with Turbo Boost Technology).
Thoshiba Satellite is a work "horse work", very good construction and support long time of work.
The keyboard are ideal for people with a small fingers, TOSHIBA really works for their customers.
2nd Toshiba Laptop I have owned & I have been very impressed with their products vs. HP, Dell & Lenovo.
=)Update: about three weeks after purchase my laptop crashed.. would not turn on.. amazon quickly replaced it and have had no problems since... maybe it was a defective?
Purchased in December of 2011 and crashes (black screen) on February 5th, 2012.
I call Toshiba support and they say I incorrectly installed an update (which is not the truth) and the cost would be all mine.
Toshiba is junk tech support (I had to call back several times because my call was conveniently dropped) and so is their computer.
They do not stand behind their product.
After getting the new AC adapter, the unit still had the same problem but now it would not hold a charge in the battery for more than a day when shut off.
I contacted them again and they said they would not replace the unit but if I sent it in to their repair facility they would attempt a repair and send it back!
Asus is going wher no one" has been before (price)and quality, nice Laptop for every one!The Laptop is fast and the only con" is the Update that keeps showing when you start the Laptop, am sureyou can manage to avooid this after while.
The purchase was made through Amazon  and the hard drive stopped working  after less than 2 weeks of use.
The Tobshiba rep gave a claim reference number and stated that the distributor whom I purchased the laptop must be notified concerning replacement.
He did not accept return of the computer.
My husband contacted Toshiba concerning this laptop and they stated that they would send a box so the computer could be returned.
We have not received the packaging  2 months after the purchase.
The computer stopped working  during the reurn period.
He took my money and when the laptop was defective he did not take his "junk" back and send a new computer.
Had to get a replacement, as installing Ubuntu broke corrupted the BIOS and I was having startup problems2.
Keyboard is comfortable, keys are well spaced and has the feel of a regular keyboard5.
Out of the box we had trouble with Windows 7 which was the program that was advertised to be installed.
We had to reboot Windows and start over.
When the motherboard crashed on my old laptop this new one was recieved overnite.
It arrived on time , in a sealed factory box .
I purchased an NV Series Gateway laptop and within the first two months had my first issue, I took it back to Best Buy and it was sent back to Gateway where they had to replace a piece of faulty hardware.
A couple months later the Gateway laptop failed again, and once more I took it back to Best Buy who sent it off and had a new mother board installed.
A few months later, the same thing happened, failure, and ANOTHER mother board had to be installed.
I have contacted Gateways tech support but they require a $200 fee for their help.
I spent just under 2 hours getting the run around by their tech support and then a supervisor.
When I told them I wanted to speak with a corporate customer service rep, I was given a phone number which ultimately got me to another call center in India where they finally admitted that they were in fact tech support as well and not customer service.
Great computer for the money.
in todays resource hungry games.
Does not show fingerprints ( they are there.. you just cant see them :-)Tools like K10Stat allow you to overclock / undervolt the APU.
Cons:Atheros wireless card has max rate of 150MbpsSome software on samsung support site does not correspond to the version which their preloaded sofware helper app.
We purchased this for a client of ours who will not go to a store or buy a computer online.
The included programs have allowed even an amateur like myself to explore various song/video recording options.
Was going to return but would have to pay to ship back and pay a restock fee, not what I expected from dealer or Amazon.
Had to return to Tiger direct.
The screen has developed a serious pixel problem and a new screen to replace is well over $100 - just for the part.
The seller (electronix depot) was also prompt to ship it on time as said.
Also the defective product shipped by seller has to be verified before sending to keep up their credit going in market.
the laptop got delivered on the 3rd day after ordering.
for this particular model the packaging was superb.. inside the normal cardboard case, there was a black wooden case with XPS logo and graphics in which this laptop was placed ..!!!
This computer will sell between $450 and $650(do some online research).
The Toshiba would go into hibernate mode when lowered 90% of the way(the wife likes you to show some respect by closing the laptop).
The video itself is good for 4Gb Ram, but high end gamers will not agree with the graphics(they usually do custom computers).
I can spend $20 to expand it to 6GB(search the internet and you will find a good deal on memory).
The audio and mic jacks are on the side of the laptop.
Exactly 13 months after purchase, its parts started failing one after the other.
Warranty extension is a must.
Will stay away from Toshiba products in the future.
Now the worse: for the hardware (an i5 M480) it is a low price machine at around $450 (sale price), but it is by now means a low end laptop; so how can it be explained that such machine did not even come with a LED for the CAPS LOCK key.
This computer has only 1 memory slot total which means to upgrade you must remove the 4 gigs it comes with and replace with 8 gig stick.
THE HINGES FOR THE MONITOR TO OPEN & CLOSE  IS PIECE OF JUNK.
BOUGHT FOR MY SON, AND THE MONITOR HINGES ARE BREAKING THE KEYBOARD & PLASTIC HOUSING.
THE LAPTOP HAS BEEN ON HIS DESK AND HAS NEVER BEEN TRANSPORTED.
They know they have a problem, but they are choosing to make customers angry instead.
Not giving Dell a 15% re-stocking fee to return it, so I will live with it and become another customer Dell has lost.
Chase of American Royalty Sales hand delivered the Dell Inspiron 17R to my door on 7/13/13.
Dell Inspiron 17R N7110 17.3" Laptop (Intel Core i7-2630QM Quad-Core Processor, 8 GB RAM, Windows 7 Home Premium 64-bit)
I bought it one year back and during the warranty period I replaced hard disk, DVD drive, touchpad, keyboard and mother board 3 times.
Will return.
Going to bring up a lemon contract and demand another computer.
I bought a wireless printer at the same time - over half the time when I want to print something I have to carry the machine back into the office, plug the cable in, and re-install the wireless connection.
4 hours on the phone with a customer service rep did not solve the problem.
Dell used to sell a clean, functional product, but obviously that is no longer their company philosophy.
used it for a while and let it fall to the ground, breaking the LCD, the problem that the repair in Brazil is the price of a new one.
Her exact words were "only like if a plug came undone inside the unit".
Turns out the warenty for phone support was only 90 days.
Go buy a quality product or buy from a company that will stand behind their product.
Record just as advertised.
He received it on time and has been already 6 months since my purchase and He has not problem at all with his laptop.
My daughter wanted a familiar operating system windows 7.
I plan to return it and get my money back.
The function keys worked but the sound, internet wireless, and mouse had the wrong software.
These all disappeared when I ran the recovery section.
Do not buy any "refurbished" unit from Amazon because they are junk!
Will be trying a video game soon to see how the video card is.
I PURCHASED THIS LAPTOP BASED ON THE REVIEWS OF PREVIOUS CUSTOMERS AS WELL AS ADVICE FROM FRIENDS I GOT LAPTOP LAST NIGHT 04/16/12 WAS VERY EXCITED (LIKE A CHILD AND NEW TOY CHRISTMAS MORNING), HOWEVER MY HAPPINESS SOON TURNED TO DISAPPOINTMENT AND DISMAY THE STRIP THAT IS TO THE TOP OF THE KEYPAD WAS NOT LAYING FLAT AND WHEN I TOOK IT OUT I REALIZED PART OF THE STRIP THAT IS NEEDED TO SNAP IT INTO PLACE BROKE OUT.... ALSO THE TRACK PAD WAS NOT RESPONDING VERY DELAYED AND WHEN I MOVED CURSOR IT MOVED IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS I HAD TO RESTART LAPTOP TO ELIMINATE THAT PROBLEM I WOULD CONTINUE TO MAKE MY COMMENTS AS TIME GOES BY.
Thus need for additional external HDD to run the job every day.
She was very pleased with this laptop because it allows her to study in the library and then go to her friends for discussion back again to hhome for finalise the homework.
People are still amazed when they first pick up this computer.
They charged $459 for repair.
When I called them to confirm the repair, they said that the charge was $459.
Toshiba broke my trust in their product and their customer service.
Toshiba Portege Z835-P360 13.3-Inch Ultrabook (Silver) is a great gift for a good friend.
Now I want to buy a new one for my friend.
But found the CPU has been changed to A110.
except the dell 14z and since they r taken apart to make them smaller to fit in the housing the back plate gets removed that shows the part numbers and makers of the screens.
Therefore, the claimed bundled software is not there and I cannot create any recovery disc for further use in case of hard drive crash.
Amazon replaced the unit that cracked during setup and now the replacement has also cracked after approx.
Bought this laptop and use it for around a week now, love it.
ToshibaDirect sells an Ivy Bridge Z935-ST2N03 for $1,199.00.
Considering the value for money, this product is going to give Apple the run for the money !
bought this Toshiba  months ago since it broke, hard-drive crashed and when it was send back under warranty - Toshiba held it for over a month before fixing it.
it is disappointing product, I bought in 7/12 brant new sealed box for my board exam ( the software only goes on Windows) I spent close to 900 dollars,I only used it for about 72 hr over the last 1.5 yr but it broke 2 twice I sent for repair I have 3 mac computers that why I do not use and it stay in the box after come form the repair, with this scanty use of this toshiba, soon after I bought it  it would not charge I have to keep charger plugged in, then They changed the motherboard and sent back then the battery went bad I sent back they change the battery just few days before the warranty was expired, now I opened and would not start just after they sent back form repair.
Only downside is the limited 128GB SSD, ok for some users not all, esp when you want to take camera and video backups on travel.
It was new in box & I only have to wait on a 50 dollar rebate to get back to the 299 amount.
Thanks MS for coming out w/ a new OS...!Now if I can only figure out the easiest way to transfer all my files from my 8 year old (& very reliable & still running) HP desktop.
However, my hard drive failed - 3 months out of warranty!!
(2) Harddrive is not very large.
Toshiba Portege Z835-P370 13.3-Inch Ultrabook (Silver)
A lot of useless programs installed (third part and toshiba).
I formated (using a linux flash drive) and installed everything from zero... with most recent drivers and windows updates, so... this computer becomes awesome!
Windows grade increased from 5.5 to 6.7.
), and no bluetooth (almost $1000  in this laptop and no bluetooth!!!).
Hardware and configuration 4.7 stars, software and web support for drivers and tech specifications 1 star.
Have tried everything I can think of to remedy this (even bought new router) plus have gotten on blogs where other users have similar complaints.
Came with 750gb hard drive, 6gb DDR, Windows 7, and a Blu-ray player/DVD recorder.
Comp crashed.. no new software, downloads, etc.
Got a run around with a complete idiot with Toshiba customer service.
She tried getting me to pay $50 for telephone support.
I purchased this laptop during summer, and had it brought over to where I now live in Europe in September.
This computer stopped working 18 months after it was purchased.
She will use it for school projects, etc.
Windows crashed three times in the first two days.
My hubby asked me to get a laptop for his wrestlers to use for school work while they are in practice so not to miss out on school work.
We will eventually install Microsoft 365 for the students to use.
I received it within a couple of days of ordering, turned it on, and have been working away every since.
but did have a isssue with the computer but they were very quick to fix the problem .
thanks jsm computers kids love the computer:)
letters missing on three keys.
Perfect for searching the internet, email, and all your computer needs.
But video, internet and office programs run great.
My problem was (after being on the phone with one of their associates for well over an hour) someone had unplugged the internet card.
I ordered overnight shipping and it took a week because the laptop got lost.
Im a business student.
For a refurbished unit, it came in great condition with all up to date information in it.
It works as advertised, though the NIC card died about two weeks after the 30 day warranty ran out.
Both seemed practically new when they arrived, and both have performed perfectly.
When it arrived there were a couple of dings on the outside cover, which is to be expected on anything refurbished.
The laptop only worked for 2 weeks.
she is just trying to get used to it
The first Dell system I bought 7 years ago has never broke down and still runs our main office.
For the price this is in great shape, however a short time after purchase, the installed windows program expired.
It was ready straight out the box and it arrived early.
They arrived quickly, with instructions and power cords all neatly packaged.
We purchased this laptop for my 10 yr old daughter for Christmas.
It is perfect for her and she loves it.
The battery that came with the laptop burned out after only a few weeks and I had to buy a new one.
came as advertised.
Computer arrived on time, very well packed and with directions.
Bad: motherboard broke 3 times and had to get MSI to replace with a newer model.
I was looking to buy a laptop for school, I initially wanted a hp mini, but then I discovered this beautiful Sony vaio.
We purchased 2 of these laptops for our 8 and 10 year olds for Christmas in 2011.
After troubleshooting over the phone with a Lenovo rep, she concluded it needed to be returned to Lenovo.
Within 2 weeks we had our computer back with a new hard drive.
Finger print access control completes a great system for security.
I was also able to run The Old Republic for several hours at a time on medium settings with 30fps.
Only when you get up to I7 do they start beating the A6 in graphics capability.
However, ram update to 8 gig is a must if u cinsider this laptop for gaming.
The computer arrived very quickly, was everything advertised and is amazingly thin, slick and beautiful.....
The computer is fast, was on line and operating right out of the box.... Love it love it,,,,love it.....
I order this laptop a couple weeks back and decided to do a review.
:)
My son searched this computer out and he loves it.
I knew that it is used, but the 1/3 of screen is showed up as a bit broken (not physically, but digitally)Now I am fixing the computer at IT center for a month because it gets virus....
However it was in the body.
I have problems with a space key that works intermittently, to problems with bluescreen errors "driver power state failure".
Only gripe is that Samsung included the wrong power adapter in the box, they put in the 5.5mm one from the 14inch unit, doh!
After booting to windows, the laptop is still pretty quick.
The nearest Samsung service is in Texas while I live in DC.
Support takes it back for 19 days and it comes back with the same problem (You have to ship it and they ship it back).
Called Samsung, re installed driver, restored the system few times.
Called Samsung,was told to do a "basic" recovery, did it, laptop stop booting, end of the story.
2 USB 3.0 ports and Bluetooth 3.0 inbuilt- Keyboard is very goodCons:- Build is very flaky.
Very dissapointing.- Two finger scrolling has a definite lag.
I was very frustrated to discover, however, that the power connection was faulty.
I did a quick google search and found a few other people who have had problems with their power supply "suddenly" coming loose to have the same problem I did, but I was having it straight out of the box.
The motherboard shorted out after 15 months.
Good performance for a business user (excel, word, powerpoint, outlook, etc).
Who can get a 9/10 new Core i5 Samsung for $370?
Bought this laptop about 3 months back and have been using it everyday at home.
From Day 1 this unit was defective.
Great laptop, no problems for six months now and is on 24/7.
When it arrived from Amazon on 8/16/2012, I discovered that one of the USB Ports was inoperative.
On September 13, 2012 the repaired computer was returned to me.
It was in her carry on bag at her feet.
In the cons, the battery is not removable and frequent use with the AC power will inevitably overcharge the battery.
All in all this is a "use it until it breaks and then buy another" laptop.
After six months I have relegated this computer to the trash.
Finally, after only six months, it will not connect to any program after it boots up.
After doing research for more than 1 month and returning two Ultrabooks (Dell XPS 13 and HP Envy Spectre 14) I am finally happy with this purchase.
Next came HP envy Spectre (A very eye catchy laptop).
Then I saw Samsung Series 9 2012 model and purchased it from B&H; for $1299 ( this was on Sale for 1 day).
Cons (but not deal breakers)- Charging Cord.
You can remove the factory recovery partition(20GB) as there is recovery CD in the box.
when the first ss9 came out...
Wifi is an option when you go to Starbucks or other public places which may have internet connections.
Excellent software to protect your computer, which updates regularly.
The laptop arrived fine, however when we plugged it in we realized that the battery was not charging.
6 Gig of memory on this laptop ensures the applications run smoothly and seamlessly with many windows open at once.
Needed a simple machine to do basic tasks- e-mail, web browsing, word processor.... and to run a sports meet software.
Bought this for my daughter and it was too heavy for her to carry around school.
Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium, (64Bit)1 year limited warrantylaptop is actually 5.15 lbs
He arrived on time, in good condition and properly packaged.
BOUGHT THIS UNIT NEW,OPEN BOX.
Seller refused to refund.
Jenny
After a little over two months of use the hard drive crashed on this Inspiron.
I did get a less-powerful 15R with a 2.1GHz chip three months ago.
I lost it to thiefs and decided to order another i15RN, this time with the stated chipset.
I fumbled with this computer at first until I realized that this was truly like new and started fumbling around on the Dell help website to figure out I needed to download some drivers .
It comes with some virus protection and you can download more from the site .
Dell support site does not detect my service tag, when I finally found a number to call I am referred to some foreign call center , tech support was very condescending and could not solve my problem for under 300 dollar annual tech support .
BUY THIS DROPS and SPILLS WARRANTIES THEY WORK, THANKS SQUARETRADE NOW GO BUY YOU USUALLY GET THE CONTRACT EMAILED TO YOU WIHTIN AN HOUR
In terms of features, processing power, and memory (processing and storage) this laptop beat all comperably priced models by a landslide.
The computer arrived with a dead battery!
Besides the very older two that have now been retired, I currently have two XPS 17 with i7 processors and two Inspiron 15R with i3 processors, all are beautiful machines.
Recently went out of town for 2 months to sell my parents home, needed a good laptop that I could count on.
7 days, 20 phone calls, now 14 emails later Dell has still not responded to me despite their senior managers promising to help.
After having my new XPS 15 for only 12 days, the Hard Drive failed!
Windows 7 crashed on it 2 weeks later.
After hours and hours on the phone with DELL support, problems persist.
Sleek slim design, boots quickly and overall is quiet (with the exception of the DVD player).
Love the 15.4" monitor.
Battery has power for about 3hrs max... Would have been great to have a Blue ray player since the resolution is 1080pVery limited number of USB ports (only 2), so if you are using a USB mouse and a USB headset, then you cannot access data from a flash drive.
Does not have a separate numerical key panel on keyboard.
The product did not have the proper drivers installed out of the factory, a disgrace.
Touchpad barely works, memory sucks, and the power cord wore out after only a few months of use.
First shipping: I ordered it on December 12 and I paid extra for quick delivery, however with UPS I did not receive it before December 24Second: The DVD RW drive does not work.
He uses it for Office 2007 documents, internet browsing and flash games.
Had to return the laptop to amazon.
BEWARE WHEN PURCHASING DELL LAPTOP MODEL i17RN-4235BK 17INCH.
THIS ISCONFIRMED BY THE SERVICE TAG LABEL ON LAPTOP AND BY DOING A SYSTEM INFOFROM THE CONTROL PANEL.
Nice keyboard, 15 inches screem, DvD rewritable drive, multigesture touchpad, 3GB of ram (up to 8), intel prossesor and more.
I ordered this new laptop for my graduate school online.
Does the job for internet daily surfing, and office work!
the laptop arrived very quickly and in perfect shape.
The PC arrives in time and in perfect conditions.
I ordered the laptop but did not realize it was a year old already and warranty had expired, it broke after 30 days and returned it for a full refund.
I spent several months researching models before selecting this one.
Other users report the same problem.
(Search for "fan noise Dell XPS" on the internet.)
Pros:- Price- Blu-ray- JBL sound system with subwoofer- WLED screen- Touchpad size and functions- Sound outputs to 5.1 systemCons:- 6-cell battery lasts for 2.5 hours, buy a 9-cell battery instead- Only 3 USB ports (1 shared with eSata)- No VGA output, must have a HDMI to VGA converter
My laptop was under the guaranty, so they changed the hard drive for free.
The Dell repair people did not accept any responsibility for recovery of my precious data, so I paid about 150$ to rescue my data before they put the new  hard drive(or refurbished?
By the way, their technician came to my home to change the drive.
We agreed to a specific time for service, he called me early in the morning, I missed the call as I was showering.
I complained to their manager, they obliged him to come on same day.
After weeks of them trying to fix it, they finally sent me a refurbished replacement.
Exact same problems with the keyboard and the wireless.
The delivery was on time as stated on the order form.
Took my unit apart to replace all the grease with arctic silver 5.
until one night, smoke started coming out of it!We did get good service, but the smoke was off putting.
god bless the gratful dead
This laptop for 2 months straight... even when pushed with several applications running.
I am someone who HAS TO run multiple programs and push it... and I love this laptop... making a mainframe and server tower type go GO MOBILE and have the same power on the run.
It did all of that for the entire first year.... unfortunately 1 year and 1 day following my purchase (right after my 1 year warranty expired) the keys on the mouse pad broke.
They lost a lot when they became Lenovo and it took a while for it to happen.
I bought an upgrade to the 3 year on site anything happens warrenty and they did not proccess it till I called a week later.
Then I was told it would take 2 more business days to process it and 2 more weeks after that to show up on the web site.
The  computer crashed in two weeks and I had to buy the recovery disks for $59 and they did not work perfectly.
Arrived from Amazon in quick order.
hinges screwed into plastic which breaks after 1-2 years.
Instead of discarding computer after short use time.
They saved 25 cents for metal sleeves to force people to buy new computers soon after warranty runs out.
We ordered this computer from Amazon on 12/10/2011 @ a cost of $949.29.
We called tech support & after hours on the phone with them, it finally started working again.
Six months later, we had the same problem except worse.
They finally agreed to send an onsite technician to replace the hard drive (which is what our warranty stated it would do).
He came last Monday & replaced the hard drive but then said that was ALL he was authorized to do.
He could not actually get us back into operation!
He said we needed to use the recovery discs which we had previously purchased.
When we tried to use them, they would not work.
We had only had them 11 months.
Once again, after spending considerable time with tech support, they agreed to send me another recovery disc at no charge.
ordered friday the 3rd was here before 10 am on the 4th of feb. pakaging great .
Within the first 2 weeks of using it the fan broke, and Costco replaced the entire computer.
Three weeks ago (2 weeks out of Lenovo warranty) the hard drive crashed.
Then they asked, "Is there anything else we can help you with?"
We use it at our shop, and it sits on the front counter where people will use it for an arm rest,or sit things on.
Trouble free and exactly as described.
Has everything my friend required & is very happy with the purchase,  I had previously purchase one for my spouse/family.
over a year ago We are very happy with the purchase
I had researched a new laptop for weeks but when I stumbled on this one, I fell in love right away!!
Had to purchase windows XP.
Daughter took to college and does lots of work on this computer.
Easily compared to other friends computers from the IOS world with equal results and half.. no third the money of the others topped out version.
Planning to return the laptop
At first the laptop was good.. but after a while of usage, the screen started blinking n the system operated very slowly...
excellent team, works perfectly and very beautiful design, I arrived on time, I have only one problem at 3 months and 5 days I use the computer stopped working and will not start or do anything and be out of the country I have been told I can not claim the warranty.
When we placed the order there was no expedited option.
It seems that the hard drive needs to be replaced again, (second computer same problem).
I bought this product new and after 6 months the wireless card went kaput.
The computer is fast but i have to change the Hard Disk Drive, one month after buying it.
Then, it would get a "Operating System can not be found!"
This worked for a while until the computer died.
Then, Sony sent out a tech to replace EVERYTHING in the computer except the harddrive.
This repair lasted a few months until the problem occurred again.
I needed to replace my old Dell Inspiron before starting graduate school and after months of research settled on this one.
I need for the company to send both cd"s because i purchased two sony vaio notebooks.
The vaio shut off automatically after causing problem after problem for 2 1/2yrs.
The company policy on returns is also hopeless.
I know 3 other friends of mine who had the same problem.
My daughter is having a problem with the hinges breaking which is causing the outer to shell to crack.
(This one).
This laptop worked great for a while then started having all kinds of problems with the operating system.
I bought the refurbished one for about $300 which was a steal because ASUS is elite in the PC world, and for that memory and other specs it was a no brainer.
ASUS A53U-AS22 15.6-Inch Laptop (Mocha)
It downloaded live essentials active sync which caused the pc to lock up.
Great laptop for home or a college student.
I just wish Microsoft could one day just include Microsoft Office into their Windows operating systems since this only has Office 2010 starter.
The computer I ordered crashes every time it goes to sleep.
We purchased this for our nephew college, thinking first on a netbook, but this is a real laptop, at a netbook price, and with asus top quality.
I was about to get this ASUS laptop due to the good looks but I decided to hold one day later.
OO1).
They work just fine and meet all the needs the children have for school work assignments.
For the price, it a nice laptop for daily use of email, internet searching and etc..
Today after only 6 month of used.
I purchased the case (which is a little snug) and the wireless mouse.
The unit is well built.
After weeks of research I decided on the ASUS A53E-AS31-RD.
It arrived quickly and in perfect condition.
First off the trackpad wore through within 2 months.
After 7 months the laptop began have problems with detecting the battery.
Finally after talking to Asus tech they said to send it to a repair center.
Three weeks later it comes back and it still has the same problem.
My daughter has a 3 yr old Gateway laptop that has given her no problems at all.
comSincerely  -  CR
Will definitely consider Asus computers for future purchases.
the laptop arrived quickly, with everything promised, and works well.
My daughter bought this for a college computer and it all seems to be working great for her.
She loves the clean looks also.
bought this on my son;s advice and we are very happy with our first laptop comes in handy when traveling
I always use a mouse for one USB port and keep a large storage card in one USB port to backup critical files leaving only one unused USB port.
I purchased this monitor for a client and they use it on a daily basis as a work computer.
I spent months researching laptops before I finally bought this one.
I am going to college in a few months so I decided to pick up a laptop.
Recently,it has stopped charging, There is apparently an issue with the charging port on the side of the laptop.
My family uses this system for Email, web browsing, and Microsoft Office (purchased separately).
Have used it at home and while traveling.
Called Asus and they walked me through several steps which led to a complete wipe and reinstall from the back up, which they also walked me through.
Just used for school and work.
after having major issues with sony vaio, this computer is a life saver.
Have been using for over a year, this has been a great trouble free machine.
(My husband recently bought a laptop from another manufacturer--that also starts with A--and the touchpad is very poorly designed, which causes him no end of frustration.)
The ASUS, however, has separate right click and left click buttons that are not hidden beneath the touchpad; so no inadvertent clicking on objects on the page.
However, within 6 months the entire computer went black and we were unable to revive it.
Received computer about a month ago.
shipment was great actually I ask for 5 to 8 business days, and I got next day Im so happy with the laptop!
The main reason for buying it was to do school work, writing papers, and social media.
I received the unit on Monday and by Sunday I was received the infamous "blue screen of death".
A fatal system error after one week?
I contacted ASUS, after 45 minutes on the phone and several failed resolutions, I was told that the only fix is to send the unit back.
I tried to exchange the unit only to find out there are none in stock...  back to square one.
Pros:Windows 7 home version15.6 inch screenInexpensive - Paid $349 and got free 1 day shipping, arrived as promisedLight weight at 5.72 lbsIncludes Windows 7 home versionVery fast for internet after cleaning off bloatware and changing the settingsBattery lasts about 5 hoursBrown color is distinguishingRuns very coolCons:Caps light key is a light near the fingerpad, not easy to see.
Big waste of money for about 15 months of use.
This a great laptopOperating System: Windows 7 Home Premium (64-bit)Display: 15.6-inch HD display (1366 x 768)CPU: AMD Dual-Core Processor C-50 (1.0GHz)Graphics: AMD Radeon HD 6250Wireless: 802.11 b/g/nLAN: 10/100/1000 Mbps EthernetMemory: 3GB DDR3 1333 MHz SDRAM, 2 x SODIMM socket for expansion up to 8GB SDRAMStorage: 320GB 5400RPMOptical Drive: DL DVDRW/CD-RWCamera: 0.3 megapixelSpeakers: Altec Lansing speakersMicrophone: MicrophoneCard Reader: 5-in-1 card reader (SD, MMC, MS, MS PRO SDHC (SD2.0)Input/ Output: 1 x Mic-in, 1 x Headphone-out, 1 x VGA port/Mini D-Sub 15-pin for external monitor, 1 x RJ-45 LAN, 3 x USB 2.0 ports;Battery Pack: 6-cellDimensions: 15.12 x 10.2 x 1.4 -inches (W x D x H)Weight: 5.72lbs (with 6-cell battery)Color: MochaGreat Laptop for home using or gaming with Radeon HD 6250 & 3GB RAMIt deserves every penny paid.
It comes with a basic Microsoft that one can use for word processing however it does not come with the complete Microsoft program; one needs to purchase that in addition to the computer.
This is a great laptop for general everyday use... surfing the web, online shopping, emailing, researching, light office work, etc.
Easy to set up with new router.
After 2 months I decided to purchase the Samsung laptop.
Even after the re-installation of Windows, the laptop still only boot 1 out 3 times.
Went back to online tech support, and got hold of a different person.
After some debates, she finally relented and gave me a link to hardware repair support.
After signed up and entered all registration information and stated the problem.
Had to call live customer service to set up an UPS delivery.
Went back to check their online status, the online system failed to track my original registration with my repair ticket, and claimed my brand new laptop is out of warranty!
Again, had to call their live support to correct it.
Well, after a few weeks of testing - all my installed software were gone of course.
Sent back to the same 3rd party tech service in Fort Worth again.
Received the laptop back after 10 days.
The tech claimed they replaced "parts" - what a joke again!As soon as I tried to turn it on, the SAME "HDD Error message"!
A customer relationship rep contacted me through email and expressed they will offer an exchange.
After almost 3 weeks, they finally send me a label to ship the old unit back and replaced it with a supposedly new unit.
Hope Samsung keeps up with the drivers (especially the NVIDIA 675m as currently the driver is only available from laptop manufacturers and not NVIDIA) given they are a new comer to the gaming laptop market.
For Samsung creating their first gamer computer they showed everyone else up ( dells alienware) the other one I looked at.
SIMPLY AMAZINGSo many features that yet have not completley taken advantage of all of them.... No one who starts dealing with a Samsun laptop can change his mind: Samsung forever
I decided to switch from Dell to Samsung and I started having issues with this computer the first week I started using it.
Have had the computer for about a month.
has anyone recently replaced one of the hard drives for an ssd?
When I recieved the package the laptop plugged in and started up no problems at all, Windows 7 comes setup and ready to go I loaded my applications and software and I was using for all intended purposes right off the bat.
Our Asus G75VW laptop purchased in Sept 2012 for nearly $1,400 and registered with ASUS is defective and needs to be returned.
Apparently other users have encountered this same issue.
Regardless of the cause, we now to exchange the defective laptop for a new unit.
It is really nightmare, within just 6 weeks of purchase the operating system has failed numerous times" YOUR COMPUTER WAS UNABLE TO START".
Video is amazing sharp (when use in correct battery plan).
To experience two serious failures within a month is unacceptable for a $1500 laptop.
I returned a Lenovo for this reason (the disc rubbed as the drive was not installed correctly).
Has held up to daily transport to classes, etc.
I used it for 3 months and it stops working after I upgraded one Samsungs software.
not even going to bother with their support - this is going back to the vendor.
Only 3G of the 4G expansion of ram is recognized for a total of 5G (of 6G) ram total.
This laptop replaces an early one made by HP which "crashed."
However, the price of $399 cannot be surpassed.
No need to spend money on a fruit(wink)
This will make a good computer for someone who want to do internet and email.
Considering my 1 and half year old daughter who has made it fall 4-5 times from bed or table.
The laptop arrived in about 1 week.
Out of the box literally plug and play.
What a joy to use, and so fast compared to our old desk unit.
The extra research paid off when we found this laptop.
I purchased this laptop a couple of months ago and got it for only $489.00.
Tried running recovery disks and no luck.
Took to an expert and hard drive is shot.
I sent it in once for repair and then again three times through Staples where I purchased it.
I bought this one about 10 months ago, and waiting until now to rate.
Before we bought it we had a friend of ours who is an IT guy and major computer nerd check it out and he gave us the full go ahead to get this computer.
I got the laptop in late November and gave it to him for christmas.
I then tried to return it to amazon and they would not take it back because it was over 30 days old..
HP g7 has crashed five times in six mos.
Cold start up takes between 15-30 seconds.
Super fast!Buy a wireless mouse.
I got this for $699 at Office Max.
I bought two HP Ultrabookfrom B&E; Crop through Amazon.
But till several days, I found that B&E; Crop send the wrong item to me, my ordered the PC is "HP Folio 13-1020US", but I received PC is "HP Folio 13-1051nr".
I come from china, I bought this two PC when I in my business trip at Palo Alto in California ,USA.
At then I send email to B&E; Crop that hope he can send my PC ASAP.
When I received the PC, since the appearance of this two PC and must need go back china soon, so forget to check it.
I send email to B&E; Crop, and he no response, so yesterday I submit a return item request, and today he give me a response said that the "Expiration of returns period".
The Folio is very light-weight and at 13.3" is just right for traveling.
Appears to be fairly rugged after being bounced around on the flights and traveling in a car.
The keyboard is a joy specially with the spacing between the keys and the layout.
It is so fast to start up - it is so much better than our other (traditional) laptop.
I bought it for a family member who is preparing to leave for college and fully expect it will take care of their needs as well as remain in good condition for some time.
A note: We did purchase (total of $55.00 from Amazon)an external DVD burner and a large capacity USB thumb drive to provide for some flexibility and options for data storage and media sources but love the form factor.
Most LCD projectors at customer conference rooms have VGA support only.
Comments/ Suggestions are welcome... HP Folio 13-1020US 13.3-Inch Ultrabook (Steel Gray)
The result is constant errors that must be corrected.
She has the same problem.
HP should really have their products tested by actual users.
very fast shipping within 6 days of Payment !
I am right now watching "I LOVE LUCY" for several weeks.
The battery (9 cells) did not work properly after several months, but HP sent me a new one to replace it.
However after 2 years, the product was going down.
Two of my three children have these to use in college.
Dsepite the fact that i bought 2 pices of this laptop, the seller (BLINQ) gave a false description of the products, shipped someting entirely different from what was ordered for.
When contacted, i was asked to send the machines back to them, whereas the machines are being taken out of the States, I am highly disappointed at this act of deception.
this replaced a DM4 2060US that was starting to lag after hard use for 3 years.
weight with DVD Driver & 750GB HDD!
I bought it after my three year old XPS 1530 stopped and was to expensive to repair.
Great computer for the money.
Would buy another or tell a friend
It is surprised that I signed the purchase order for a HP computer and a wireless keybosrd in the morning and I received both next day afternoon.
Manufactuer defects in 3 out of the 7 we ordered.
Business was down for several days.
I have built three computers from parts, and have a small side business fixing computers.
My old laptop recently died on me, and my parents purchased me a netbook for school.
The only way to get out of this is to log off and log back in.
The hot keys at the top of the keyboard are swapped.
Now after about 2 years, entire folders disappear.
My 15 year old son loves this, uses for gaming and school.
This is the 3rd one that I have bought in the last year one from Amazon and two from the store (sorry amazon) one of them within a few weeks the hard drive crashed, but must admit the Hp tech support and customer service was good and they sent me a replacement (hard drive) and all of them has been working pretty good ever since.
get more information from link belowHP g6-1d60us (15.6-Inch Screen) Laptop
i bought it with the square trade warrenty 3-year accident plan and i had to get screen fixed one time because some one broke it and it all went smooth and quick and came back exceptional
The laptop arrived a day early, very nice.
I finally found this laptop after searching for 3 weeks for a laptop.
SAD.. AND IM MAD WITH HP COMPUTERS!Im stupid cause it had happened before with another HP laptop...
Got home, it would not work, after 4.5 hours on the phone with tech support they agreed that it would not work and I told them it would be very difficult to take back to Costco and would they pick this one up and replace it with a new one.
They said "no."
Then wanted to know if I had had my problem solved and how they had done with their "support."
Even the guy who was on the line with me for the 4.5 hours tried to get them to pick this defective laptop up and send me a new one and they refused.
Their customer service is horrible.
Laptop came equipped with pre-installed Norton Anti Virus and as soon as it is activated, the computer is rendered useless in a few days.
It was shipped quickly and arrived safely.
Other customer reviews helped me to decide.
Only thing is, the trackpad always turns back on after the laptop wakes up.
and the 6 gigs of ram is very nice, (upgradeble to 16).
Un maquina para trabajar en Photoshop, Facebook, Internet.
I bought myself and my wife one apiece at the same time and could not be happier with them for either her purposes (e-mail, web surfing, games, etc) or for my business useages.
She does a lot of her work on it and we have had it for several years now.
Wireless & Bluetooth did not work on arrival.
Went thru all of their suggestions and finally the second tech gave up and suggested that we give up and send it back to Amazon.
Amazon agreed to have UPS pick up the broken computer and ship me a new computer in two days.
this computer was purchased for home use by a retired senior citizen.
Speed of computer is fine for my purposes, which are e-mail, games & internet web browsing.
Searched all brands and decided on this HP.
The back light is great along with the scroll and the sound system.
The frame on the monitor came off starting at the left corner.. every time you open the lid on the laptop the frame around the monitor comes off.
Purchased for our small company.
Husband already bought new pc.
We were shocked when item was returned to us claiming we used the laptop and tried to wipe it clean after registering it!!!
We tried contacting/emailing them and kept getting the same answer.
He has had it now for a week and it is running great.
Getting a MacBook Pro when the new on comes out .
I got this a month ago to take to an international destination for web browsing, email and other light computer duties.
It was great for the first year, then monitor started to malfunction.
I have to get use to the tiny words (cause I am old :).
I wish it came with a one year virus protection and MS Office package.
Recommend this to all "coffee shop" computer users.
The "Wireless Type" is described as "802.11bgn", and technically this is true.
However, the model is incapable of receiving the 5 GHz frequency range for which the n specification is intended.
Networks using n will ordinarily be in that range, and this computer cannot therefore connect to them.
Amazon wants $150.00 of your money to take back.
My machine arrived from HP from China 6 days before the estimated ship date.
But, perhaps not wisely, I had already ordered a new DV7 from HP using a different means of payment and using 2 business day shipping.
I know because I would have gotten within 2 days of ordering with Prime.
Just know when you order a new computer that is customized (from any vendor, Dell or HP), make sure you have a back up for that time you may be without a computer.
Purchased through J&R Electronics, it arrived earlier than expected,& packaged very well.
Purchased DV7 HP laptop with i7 Intel chip, 8gb ram, win7 64 home.
After many hours of comparison shopping on Amazon, I finally decided to buy this baby which had no reviews - good or bad.
i ordered a HP DV7-6C60US 17.3-Inch Laptop and it initially arrived within 3 days after the order which was great, however it was not working, i immediately contacted the store and they agreed to replace it.
Turned out to be refurbished so I went laptop hunting after it crashed and I could not update the hardware without a SVP (password for the bios).
My wife has a HP G61 with W7 and she loves it.
But they are not portable for school being 7 pounds and big.
Estoy de viaje por USA, junto con mi hijo de 17 aos.
Shipping a computer whose actual cost is half of what they offered for sale.
A con man specialized sales should withdraw.
And I am happy to report the customer service I received with hp  when I called in for help to set it up was simple and superior.
Screen just stopped working about 10 months after purchase.
Did not pursue due to private info on computer.
I also plan on taking advantage of the built in bluetooth with a compatible mouse.
My desk top died and went to Walmart to buy another desktop a friend suggested a lap top.
Great for college student
Great Deal for everyday users.
Imagine the other 48 GB of the 320 is operating systems etc -but one just has to take the files they want and move to the D drive - In fact you can copy the CDs and then past right into that drive ... Full CDs of Genealogy research for us - It is so easy just opening that drive and getting at the information - In the long run cheaper than most external hard drive storage -added an older Logitech mouse and managed to lose six straight games of Free Cell in that 3 hrs also -Just wish it was TWO of the 2.0 USB ports - now to look for a mouse that uses a 3.0 portHighly recommend - any age - any level of pc expertise.. Also moved a copy of Quicken 2000 and Family Tree Maker version 7. onto this for reading those records that are there for back up -
The backlit keyboard is a must with the built in keys and numberpad to the right.
The complaints about boot time in reviews must be from non PC friendly people whom just overload their computers with garbage and never heard of products like AVG, adaware or spybot.
The system crashes frequently when trying to run videos, iTunes is unusable on this machine for music too, and as other users reported, and the trackpad is crapy.
Spend this money on another computer.
The spacebar constantly got stuck on this unit.
Got this for my wife as she needed a 15" laptop for her own business.
However, the trackpad is just horrible.
There were a large amount of small dents located along the exterior of the computer.
Id advise all users of this laptop to plan on switching the gpu to one of the latest m series nvidia gpus.
itll be able to support bf3 with maybe 4gb memory if they decide to do that with the 750m gpu.
Laptop is not closing properly I think one side (right hand side) is notfixed properly after open the casings.
My son loves the HP Envy 15 laptop we bought for his graduation gift!
However, we did encounter the same issues on the color "RED" being displayed as "ORANGE" basedd from the other reviews of HP Envy 15 owner and users :(Hope to get color issue fixed at once by HP.
the sound quality and over all volume "Beats" (no pun intended) all other competitors.
When I received the first unit, it had 2 bad USB ports, which caused blue screen of death on the first night when I started to set up the computer.
I requested to return the unit, but in the end agreed with a replacement.
She insisted that I should give HP a second chance for an exchange and I was promised to receive a "brand new, fully functioning laptop with a 750GB hard drive.
Also, under the HP support Assistant - Warranty and Services screen, it reveals that this "new" unit was a return and was in service 6 weeks before it arrived on my desk.
u got to spend more che$$e....:p
New one arrives, Amazon upgraded to 1 day shipping for my troubles.
Tried the F10 key, going through the start menu, restarting, disconnecting the power cord.
After two weeks of use the computer would not turn on at all was broken and unusable after only two weeks
CONS1)  Keyboard is useless.
Very loose sounding on the left bank of keyboard.
Backlight for keys are OK but off center meaning the letters do not light up evenly in the dark.2)  Touchpad.
!HP ENVY 15-3040NR 15.6 Inch Laptop (Black/Silver)
Maria ZernaEcuadorEcuadorHP ENVY 15-3040NR 15.6 Inch Laptop (Black/Silver)
Then after it gets really hot (usually about 30 min) the game crashes.
Our macbook is coming up on three years.
This computer is comparable for casual users like us (email, reading news, shopping, some word processing), except for the stiff/ unresponsive trackpad.
Shipped it back the 2nd day.
I deleted the backup area on D drive thus increasing the capacity to 80GB.
I use cloud backup since local backup is useless in case the hard drive dies or the laptop is lost.3.
Samsung puts a Windows key between Fn and Alt (Ctrl, Fn, Windows, Alt).
Now Ctrl and C are four keys apart, V is even farther.
I sent one back to get a refund, purchased one from a different seller (also through Amazon) and it had the same problem out of the box.
I am now sending the replacement laptop to Samsung to get it "serviced".
The laptop came back from being "repaired" and it has the same problem.
It arrived when promised and in perfect condition.
Including The Elder Scrolls Skyrim, Fallout New Vegas, Black Ops 2, Battlefield 3, Gta Iv and Saints Row III
Now for the downside, the computer bluescreens constantly.
4 mos after 1year warranty, dc jack worn loose, will take $225 to fix..... wouldnt buy again!
2nd Repair guy said they do see a lot of broken jacks with this model and he recc trying to fix before junking.
Repaired it (epoxy to reinforce it) for only $75.
After jack was fixed, it fired right up.
Hope they will work on that.
However..... the volume control...
Need press two keys ("fn" + "inc" or "dec") to inc / dec volume.
We needed a laptop for a young man going to college, and decided to use Amazon because they always come through.
The Toshiba Satellite C655D is the laptop my wife chose, and we thought it would be an in-expensive solution to a young college student with serious Internet needs.
Recovery media creator cannot open files.
They stop working on their own.
This computer has a "2012" i3-2350M with powerful imbedded graphics and is very fast.
The packaging was secure.
Purchased this computer for my daughter for school.
It was an easy set up and has all the programs she needs to quickly get busy working with it.
Toshiba Satellite L755D-S5162 15.6 -Inch Laptop (Silver)
This laptop was purchased for my wife who had a 6 year old Compag.
She especially loves the keypad as she is an expert 10-keyer.
Four months later, the screen began to flicker and freeze.
It became worse as the weeks went on.
I needed the computer for business and asked them if they could send a replacement for me to use in the meantime.
I recently purchased this laptop for a friend of mine and she is absolutely delighted with her gift.
She is a uni student and having the laptop now enables her to send her assigments via email and take the laptop with her to classes.
Bought on friend request and he is happy .
We have two other Toshiba laptops in the family and they both are working great.
It replaced an OLD laptop she was struggling to still use.
One touch on key board and the unexpected happens.
The worst is that insead of a physical switch on the front to access the Internet, this has  a button on the keyboard.
Tech service provided little help after trying several toll-free numbers to get to someone who could understand the problem.
I picked this out for my sister a few months ago when it was $400.
(when getting to $500 you may be able to find A8 cpus, and possibly 2nd generation A8s)It exceeds all expectations, and was first chance testing out the AMD A-series and that too also exceeded my expectations, and is quite an amazing cpu.
(ofcourse you need to get network drivers from the toshiba site beforehand).
The really nice thing about the AMD A-series is that they have fully unlocked multipliers, making them overclock able (the only laptop cpus to be overclocked!).
and people have been known to get them to 2.8-3.0ghz which matches an i5 sandy bridge.
the computer arrived at the expected time.
Toshiba Satellite L755D-S5162 Laptop Computer.
Bought the laptop 5 or 6 months ago.
Did a google search and found if the battery is removed and replaced the switch will turn on.
This did work but two days later when starting up the laptop there was a window stating system encountered a startup problem and a fix was being implimented.
After the fix the wireless adapter was turned off with no way to turn it on.
After a long time getting him to understand the problem I was told it was caused by an improper shutdown and they could fix it at a cost of $99.
When I explained this unit was only 5 or 6 months old he said because of the alledged improper shut down the warranty did not cover the fix.
I then started to tell him that was unexceptable and he said goodby and hung up.
I have the 855, but then, I actually work with mine - she uses hers to keep budget, emails, etc.
This model L 755D, has stronger RAM: a maximum of 8 GB, a high performance processor, and a 64-bit operating system, in addition to the now-standard features: Webcam, wireless WiFi, Windows 7, etc.
So back she goes for a replacement.
Immediately the internet worked...
I wanted a faster computer and still with Windows 7, so I decided to purchased a refurbished Toshiba Portege.
Had the laptop for three months.
I had ordered a Toshiba desktop, but when I realized they take no ownership of their product once it is bought and paid for, I cancelled it and replaced my Gateway with another one, since I have had "0" problems with it in 5 years rather than a Toshiba.
My boyfriend looked through plenty of reviews before he found this one.
The item was arrived on time and was as described.
I am loving it as of now(been about 3 weeks) and i hope to write another review a few months from now.
They ship with NO supporting CDs.
I wanted this computer and looked on QVC, Amazon (of course!)
It was 300 dollars less from this seller than QVC and 150 dollars less than on the HP website and they were having a sale!
My wife is new to the world of computers and found this laptop easy to use.
They are rude and we have had someone out 3 times and now they want to send it in.
Bought for a great price over two years ago.
The computer crashes once in a while and some times multiple times during the day.
The keyboard is nicely laid out with a practical amount of space between the keys (to ward off those nasty double-letter hits).
Lastly, Windows 7 is a well-designed operating system.
Bought this computer in November 2011- 70 days later computer will not turn on.
Covered by warranty however you must mail computer to Texas to be repaired.
Received "repaired" computer back however it still did not work.
Both my friend and I bought these from the Microsoft Store (one in Arizona one in Virginia) during the 2011 end of the year sale.
My friends died after 3 months.
Good thing is that you get a 1 year Acer warranty that pays for shipping and repair costs (takes about 10 days).
The model has HD3000 graphics and Nvidia 240m and alternates between the 2 depending on demand.
Total value for $ spent.
Pros-Great DesignLong battery life (High Performance) 4-7 Hours/(Balanced Performance) 7-12 HoursStrong Performance for the cost.
After only loading MS antivirus, Defender, and MS Office Suit, it began to lock up.
I have also discovered a strange behavior when setting the computer up to dual-head with an external 1080p monitor.
When rebooted, the computer switches to cloned displays, which is mostly useless.
Bought for school.
Quick start up and fast browsing.
Had to return to Amazon with no hassle.
Basically, too much is running in the background on shutdown (non Microsoft services or programs) and the computer hangs up.
No windows disc, the backup is on a partition.
BTW I purchased this on a Gold Box for three hundred eighty nine dollars out the door.
My last Sony Vaio broke down after 2 years.
The PC was ordered for my son as a college gift.
nice to use with a DAW (EDM Producer and DJ) good performance with Traktor Pro 2.6 and FL Studio 10 with many plug ins and automation clips on a track.
Awesome computer, use a wireless Dsl connection and can play Star Wars: The Old Republic MMO with all options turned up and smooth FPS.
This is a great computer, right after I purchased this computer I also purchased an additional battery from sony that attached right to the bottom of the computer doubling the battery capacity.
Now I can be away from the office without worrying about needing to find an outlet.
The hard drive is SUPER fast 2 ssd hd in raid 0.
Now what genius came up with that.
Some of the keys on the right hand side sink into the laptop about a half inch when the keys are depressed.
The USB ports are on the side up front, anything plugged into them gets in the way.
This is an $800 computer.
Three (3) months after purchasing the computer the screen decided to go black.
After receiving the computer back, however, the computer then refused to recognize any batteries.
Two hours with tech support on the phone and finally got it working.
The only upside is that it has Window 7 - our other office machines running Windows 8 are a disaster.
i have purchased several (20+) HP 8460p and 8470p elitebooks from both CDW and Amazon.
i have in the recent months started to replace the included hard drive with an SSD from Samsung.
I ran Avast anti virus immediately and it found five critical viruses.
We solved this by purchasing an external USB adapter.
(Go UK!)
She loves it and I will buy another for the family computer replacing our antiquated dell desktop.
Great deal - and we are hoping for several years of reliable service out of it.
After shopping around and doing research with online consumer reports, I bought this computer for my son.
I watched local sale adds and store shopped for a few weeks and finally found it on Amazon at a great price.
The screen goes black (sleep) and needs restarting.
com/8301-13727_7-57616121-263/2013-macbook-air-black-screen-woes-continue/Summary:On any mid-2013 MBA (11" or 13"), when system is idle long enough to dim the display/go to sleep, the screen fades to black.
If the user tries to prevent sleep by tapping a key or trackpad, the system hangs with a black screen.
The CAPS LOCK key toggles on/off when pressed, but no other user input seems to do anything.
Only a hard boot will bring system back.
Let system idle and wait for display to dim (based on power settings).2.
Before keyboard backlight is completely off, press a key or swipe the trackpad (as if trying to prevent the system from sleeping, thus requiring re-entry of password)Expected Results:I would expect the system to wake up and let me continue with what I was doing.
Only a hard boot will bring system back on.
The only problem with buying a mac.... is the cost..
Just a tip for those transitioning from Outlook to Mac Mail - use an app called Mail Monkey.
The keyboard and mouse are amazing, love the LEDs on the keys.
I bring it to the office, university, and business trips out of country.
(Pictures if requested.
)Though desktops might have an upper hand due to the fact that windows computers can be user upgraded, Apple beats the world in portable electronics.
She loves it as does her husband who created a great iMovie on it.
If you own the laptop for two years, the additional $200 comes to less than 30 cents per day.
I bought my Air at the Apple store, just so I feel comfortable working with my local folks for when I eventually have to go back in with an Apple issue ( I have lots of Apple items, so building relationships helps <g>).
The computer is a real dream and very aesthetically pleasing to the eyes.
After receiving it the set up went well, updates loaded and had to purchase the Microsoft Suite.
Since day 1 this MBA has dropped wi-fi connections everywhere continuously, and despite doing everything by the book-phone support and software upgrades, genius bar appointments, higher level support,etc, and 3 swap outs for other machines it still drops wi-fi.
Was contacted by an Apple engineer who made me run a diagnostic and send it to him.
He said he would help me-never heard from him again.
After my last genius bar appointment, after running a diagnostic that proved the drop, the best they could offer was for me to upgrade to a retina-pro-at my expense.
This problem began to happen last December.
I sent it back to apple store, they had run many tests and changed some hardware but the problem is still going on.
The Macbook Air is the perfect piece of technology for college students, such as myself, who need to have a laptop on them at all times (NOT A TABLET) but cannot stand carrying around a big chunky computer on top of all our books.
Battery loses power even when computer is turned off.
We have been using our new MacBook Air for a month now.
Also a great traveler and #2 fav of mine.
I am not able to go to a mac store because i am in Johnson vermont.
Using Parallels (and Windows 7), I am as able as any of them to use Windows applications as needed.
She wanted something small, lightweight, powerful, with the ability to use MS Office to write, & with a long battery life.
However, the new MBA boasts all day battery life: 11 inch (9 hours) and 13 inch (12 hours).
If you are debating between 128GB and 256GB (or custom order 512GB from Apple), consider cloud storage.
I opened it up, in brand new carefully packaged condition, turned it on, and fell in love.
My  Dell Laptop stopped working after 5 years and I purchased the MacBook Air to tie in with my iPhone and iPad.
Delivered safely, intact, & on time.
This is what laptop manufacturers wanted when they set out to create portable computing devices (phones not included).
I ordered this computer for my wife to replace an old computer she has been using to read and send her e mails.
We have returned the computer with the intention to order another from Amazon which will be easier for her to change fontsto a larger version.
Right Speaker was presenting buzzing sounds after only months of purchase.
30 min later after presenting the buzzing sounds on the right speaker, it stopped functioning.
About 7 months after I purchased the laptop the charger stopped working.
SarahNew York, NY
Daughter was "lugging" around a Mac book pro.
She travels alot so the 3 pound weight vs. the 6.5 pounds she was carrying is "heaven".
This small laptop is exactly what I need for my daily activities of emailing, banking, organizing photos and small games.
This Mac book air arrived like the next day.
My oldest son works in the Performing Arts and most of the software they use runs on Mac.
The HD5000 video supports up to 2560-by-1600 resolution and with a tiny Thunderbolt to HDMI adapter you can use any HDMI monitor  (Tera Grand - Premium Mini DisplayPort / Thunderbolt to HDMI Adapter).
This is my first Apple computer and I must say I am having some difficulty learning the ins and outs after many years as a PC user.
My wife loves it and she is a technophobe i started with apple products then shifted to PC;s because of my work.
When first purchased it was getting 11 hours of battery life and now, just a few months later, I can BARELY get 5-6 hours out of it.
started on Mac notebook, then the Mac pro and finally this one.
As in any mac, you have to purchase all the softwares and cannot transfer old purchases (word for mac, adobe etc.)
the rest of the missing component can be bought thru their store or online (portable cd rom thats mac compatible, an ethernet adapter thru mac port .. there is a name for it which i forgot, and a portable HD or usb with high capacity.
love the computer.
(Maybe a 13" model, though)
On the Apple store website, you can upgrade this purchase to 8 GB in RAM for $100 more.
In youth (1983), I used the Cp-500 system (Zilog ax-81).
Then, i migrated to the revolutionary Msx (I loved that computer: very common in Japan and Brazil).
ThenThen.. windows (286, 386, 486, Pentium, etc.
...).
This year (2014) I decided to try the Macbook Air Excellent.
gave it to my husband for his birthday, he is very pleased with it.
Excellent for a new college student.
After not having a Mac for 15 years - my university only supports PCs and my Lenovo has been nothing but trouble in terms of crashing, viruses, you name it.
whether your a pixar 3d animator or an evil scientist trying to take over the world this computer will swallow up any of those task.
When buying an apple, you always get a high quality product; however, when buying through a 3rd party, make sure you inquire about when that party purchased the computer first; the warranty begins after THEY purchase the product, not you.
After using a pc for long I now became part of the Apple world.
Luckily I still have a windows based computer to use when needed.
After using Windows for 18 years I finally decided to give Apple a try.
Fast processor, super stable operating system with MAC OS X, installing Parallels 8 gives you the ability to run both Mac OS and Windows (as long as you buy the Windows OS).
The server is easy to setup and use and have the whole family able to log into a home network.
Love them both, cant ask for more.
com brand new not refurbished for $899.99 with free shipping.
The price is higher than most lab top out there; however, he/she will get what they paid for, which is a great computer.
Quick and has built in virus control.
The computer has worked flawlessly and the seller has done a great job of going above and beyond to answer questions and help me get the software configured.
The ultimate graduation gift.
She off to College and is used to Apple products and it was easy to use new one.
He said he loves it and has been very helpful in his art class.
Five star purchase.
Next had to decide between 13 or 15.
After discussing this with many friends and colleagues I came to realize that anyone who was completely satisfied with their laptop owned a MacBook!
I bought it for a gift and the person who got it, loves it and has had zero problems with it.
Transfering files from the Windows computer to the Apple was a simple procedure.
He loves it and the capability it has enabled him to achieve.
The HDMI Port could be introduced instead of having customers buy a connection piece which is hard to find, I picked up mine when I was in Japan while in the military at an Apple Store.
We picked this up over a year ago now, and are running the iWork, iLife, Microsoft Office for Mac, and Photoshop.
We upped the RAM to 16 GB (just because).
Safari 6, Bootcamp 5.0 and other things are not as simple as they used to be.
The first one we got was defective and had to be returned.
My daughter was heading back to school and needed to take it with her.
Amazon rushed a new one using one day delivery at not cost to us and my daughter was able to take the computer to school.
Arrived in great condition and perfect working order.
if your deciding between a pc and a mac, go with the mac.
I have spent a small fortune buying teaching books.
Gradually, I am getting used to the new operating system.
After two (2) trials of delivery, you will have to go get it your self.
The Pro however may be better suited for older kids with an included CD/DVD drive and burner.
If you are planning on a notebook in 2013 for your child, the majority of kids want Macs and with Apple making them affordable at $1100 each, the MacBook Pro and MacBook Air are the way to go.
Have always been a PC guy, but decided to try Apple.
good packaging, arrived on time and in perfect condition.
It arrived super fast and well protected.
The Sims 3 also runs very well on this laptop, but after about an hours use the laptop becomes very hot.
The Computer was not new as advertised.
It had already been set up with another persons information.
Luckily I had an Apple store nearby and they reset the machine to factory, which removed the other users information from the computer for free.
After 1 year and 4 months, the best quality inside and out side, with a few updates and runs like a tornado!
Updated:Samsung Electronics MZ-7PD128BW 840 Pro SeriesCorsair Vengeance 8GB (2x4GB) DDR3 1600 MHz
I tried several times towork with Apple to resolve the issues the Mac was having after finally giving up with Apple myson suggested going back to Amazon to replace the defective one I received.
need to send to repair.
:)
Now to buy the office/student word software!
Now my Mac Book wants a iMac ;)
We have been pc users for ever until our kids brought mac books home from school.
While we struggle with all the crashes and viruses, the kids computers stay consistent and so we caved in and bought one for buisness!
my grand children requested that specific computer because they use one at school and they have a pc at home.
This was a Graduation Gift to my Granddaughter, she is in love with this computer, it is everything she wanted in a laptop.
She is entering Med.
School and the computer of choice Apple MacBook Pro.
My boyfriend actually bought it to record and he loves it.
It meet all of his expectations and it was well worth the money.
The price is 200 dollars down.
It downloaded them all in about a hour or so while dowloding other apps lisining to internet radio seting up email ect.
After few weeks when i started browsing the internet, i noticed the letters ( Fonts) were smudgy.
He quoted that "The Fonts look horrible".
I used to buy a new laptop every three years and spend about $600-800 each time.
Ask anyone who has a iMac, they will never go back to pc again.
com - Keishidojo (Bjj/MMA commercial, Jiu-Jitsu Fight Team, Reece, and the Youth Grappling Team) videos.
Also the OSX is well laid out to make things simple to share online and make these type of things easier.
:))))
The computer was for my son, he said he has no complaints, says the laptop is just what he wanted.
It also takes ten minutes to turn on after being shut off.
A discounted price for a new Apple laptop is hard to find from a reputable company.... and then there is Amazon to save the day!
As for the laptop, this is our 3rd Apple computer in the past 2 years.
After getting sick and tired off all the blue screens, the (what seemed like daily) updates, and the OS lock ups, we decided to give the Mac world a chance.
While we have been faced with some limitations regarding software (getting better daily), the problems that are persistent with a Windows PC are all but gone.
We were told to go to the apple store for warranty.
The immediate drawback am noticing is the fact that the user has to procure windows for Mac separately, thus adding to the already high cost.
Daughter really loves this lap top.
Will use when she goes off to school this fall, to North Western University.
Connected them to the network, and everything transfers, files, settings, programs.
Even they guys at the GeniusBar said this is an awesome buy for being "Used"!
it takes a wile to change from many years in Windows to operative system.
Will not go back to a PC after using this apple Mac Pro.
:-)
By Gregg L. Friedman MD, Psychiatrist, Hallandale Beach, FL
After going through 3 PC laptops in the past 3 years, we decided to make the jump to Mac.
Had to have another, after my computer was stolen, the mac book came asap and works perfectly.
Be aware of price differences when purchasing computer.
Amazon has since fixed the price to show the same, but it is now higher on both platforms (but price is the same now).
She uses her Macbook for Everything.
Im college daughter has had this computer for two months and suddenly it is dead.
Because we bought on Amazon, the geek squad cannot work on it and we have to ship it to an Apple Store for repair.
This is very inconvenient for a college student to be without their computer for 1-2 weeks.
Purchased for our son as a Christmas gift.
Set up was a breeze.
The item was to originally be received by a specific date; however, due to the items being damaged in transit, Amazon promptly contacted me and notified of its status and immediately re-shipped a new item at no additional cost, which was received on time.
:)
the system of mac is not that hard to learn, you can get used to it in two days.
This laptop arrived very quickly, and has been running since.
Will continue to purchase amazing Apple products!
must buy!
(there is on problem with the headphone and earphone.)
My merchandise arrived very quickly just days after I put my order in even during the Christmas rush..
hopefully the "bright people" posting other versions of this mbp in this listing can figure out how to make a listing for the specs they are selling and can stop trying to cheat people.
Everything in order with the product received.
I was surprised to discover that this machine can do gaming also, it runs League of Legends and Team Fortress 2 at 60 FPS on the native 1280x800 resolution.
I ordered this with one day shipping from Amazon for prime members for $3.99.
My son needs it for his school and it also serves our personal needs.
Once I decided on MBP I was between the non-retina and retina, I decided on the non-retina due to the upgrading capabilities and the obvious costs difference.
So I took it to the apple store and turns out it had the wrong iOs, they try fixing it and after changing it and upgrading to Mountain Lion it still freezes!
My 30 days are up tomorrow, I started the return presses today outside the apple store I just hope I get a new one soon before school starts!
The  notebook is exellentI think it could bring a manual or instruccions fot new users of AppleAs well, I got to know it trying and asking for help
This version of MacBook Pro runs on a third-generation CPU ("Ivy Bridge"), not the latest fourth-generation Haswell CPU the 2013 version has.
The MacBook air with the Haswell CPU (which is what he evidently bought) has been available for far longer than the MacBook Pro with Haswell (introduced only about 1 month ago).
I was online shopping for a new computer and was pretty determined to get a MacBook Pro (after countless failures with PCs) I wanted a powerful and reliable machine that would last me a couple of years.
Time for change... After several weeks of planning and contemplation, I finally hit a stroke of luck on Black Friday ON AMAZON, finding this gem for $962!
(Originally $1,199), which trumps the student discount offered by Apple, widely believed to be the best deal around....
No complaints BUT have since discovered better prices at Moween on refurbished Mac products.
She loves her MacBook pro.
Learn to sue the command key, it is very useful over several of the software programs that come with the hardware.
Stop living in the stone age and buy a mac, you will not be sorry at all!!
The Mac was a 2009 model not a 2012 as stated in his add.
After many years of suffering through the PC world of blue screens,  security issues, locked screens, computer crashes, constant OS changes,  app incompatibilities,  etc.,  this computer is welcome relief.
Changed the memory from 4 GB to 8 GB Corsair Vengeance and 500 GB HDD (5400 rpm) with Seagate hybride 750 GB HDD+SSD.
The first was a Apple 2E (I believe from 1985) .
LlllllllllllllaNow is the time foe all good men to come to the aid of their country.
I was sent a defective device that I was told passed all certifications before the item went for sell
Until now.
Recently in July 2013 I had some power problems and I took it to the Apple store on August 8th, 2013.
The battery misbehaved exactly after the warranty expired, precise to the day!
Amazon sold me "what they called a new computer which came with software on it that had been installed by a third party which impacted the operation of the computer.
No big difference with olders models (five years ago) The Speed almost The same.
I have owned Apple computers since the first Apple Desktop for school and home use came out.
They are simpler to use.
it is the difference between chaos (life with a pc) organization (life with a mac).
Is a must buy with iWork.
My older son talked his younger brother into getting a macbook to replace his 2.5 year old laptop that was giving him problems again.
They sent the package via FedEx requiring a signature.
They claim in the phone message that they are one of the largest companies.
They are durable and seem to last forever.
He loves his Christmas gift.
My son loves his new Mac.
He takes it to school for assignments and actually looks forward to doing homework.
After 25 years living in the PC world, and having my last notebook only lasting 6 months, I decided to go to the dark side and purchase a Mac.
The graphics are capable of driving HD displays at 1920x1080 (1080p), with a small graphics adapter to HDMI.
The first one we received began to experience problems around day six of usage.
We followed the return, exchange policy on the Amazon website, and found it to be a very simple process.
Amazon issued a call tag to UPS who came to pick up the return with a label.
In the meantime, Amazon sent out the replacement which we received in a matter of a few days.
We also could track the return via UPS and saw when it was delivered to someone in Kentucky, and could even see who signed for it.
It took a bit of getting used to as it is different than windows, but my daughter says she will never go back...... She loves it.
Everything arrived and functioned as advertised.
I guess a old dog can get used to new things :)
I decided to buy it thinking on the opion of many friends of mine, I also would like to know what is the iOS for notebook, as I have already na iPod, iPhone and iPad, I decide to know how they will work together.
Perfect deal!There were small problems with Mac office.
Purchased for my Daughter in college.
Great for students for their studies and as a media center in the dorm.
After replacing the stock hdd with a samsung 830 ssd 256gb and 8gb corsair ram, the computer is lighting fast and the temp stays pretty cool.
Lasted six months and motherboard went out.
Apple will only fix for $1000  Never buy apple terrible customer service and warranty is useless!!
I initially took my laptop to the Apple Store in South dale Mall sometime in July or August 2012.
My system was held at the store for about two days.
My daughter insisted I get this for her while she attends college.
She is still using it a year later and it seems to be in good condition and she loves using it.
Also the bottom does get hot when system is in use; thats a downer.
Search for - " Apple MacBook Pro MD101LL/A 13.3-Inch Laptop - UnBoxing (2013 Non Retina)  " uploaded by Chinmay
Laptop was received in 2 days of order.....
paired withEnjoyGadgets Thunderbolt to HDMI video adapter with audio support,iPearl mCover Hard Shell Case for 15" Model A1286 Aluminum Unibody MacBook Pro (Black keys, 15.4-inch diagonal regular display) - CLEAR,AOC I2353PH 23 - Inch Widescreen Ultra Slim IPS LED Monitor with Dual HDMI - Brushed Metal,Apple Keyboard with Numeric Keypad MB110LL/B [NEWEST VERSION],Logitech Wireless Mouse M215 (Red), Premium 1.5ft (0.5M) Ultra-High Speed HDMI Cable - 120 Hz - Version 1.3 Category 2 - 1080p - PS3 - Blu-Ray - XBox360 - RED Color,HP KQ246AA 8.0 MP Deluxe Webcam,USB 3.0 to Esata Adapter Support Port Multiplier (Patent Pending) - U3esata,Mediasonic HF2-SU3S2 ProBox 4 Bay Hard Drive Enclosure with USB 3.0 & eSATA,Epson WorkForce 545 Wireless All-in-One Color Inkjet Printer, Copier, Scanner, Fax, iOS/Tablet/Smartphone/AirPrint Compatible (C11CB88201)perfect office tool with portability.....
The two go hand in hand.
got in 999$ from amazon..
When I went with the iPhone I decided to join my son and switch to Apple.
He has been trying to get me to switch for years.
Mine was malfunctioning the second day.
They have a customer for life.
We use our Mac book for home school.
If you are trying to decide between mac and a windows computer, just shell out the extra money.
However, 3 days after purchasing this Macbook Pro, I found the exact same macbook in Frys for more than $100 less!
Stopped turning on after 54 weeks.
Apple is concentrating too much of its time and resource on its consumer division (Iphone, ipad) and is beginning to neglect its professional customers.
Event though we are here before the appointment, they said we have to wait in the store until someone can work with us.
Oh wait, they are better now!Apple is great on the front end sales end and not good at all not he support/service end.
I bought this for  this for my teenage daughter who will be going to college in September .
He is a big gamer and loves all the features.
Have two ipads,two macbooks,an imac 27",ipod nano and an iphone in thefamily and am completely sold on their quality, value, and ability to retain their value.
best laptop,fast great shipment shippment was in a protected case within the box i was worried as this was the first laptop i ordered online however it was in great condition and was the best price out on the market
Got this for my Kid for CollegeShe love itreplaced her older one that i now use :-)Get one you wont go wrong
A few of my friends have custom built desktops that cost them over 2k and my laptop can keep up with their computers!
After I got the computer, and using it for 4 hours, due to the system update, I required to restart, then it shows a 1 inch bar from up to down display crashed.
I got this for my retired dad - I replaced his 7 year old Dell laptop.
needless to say he is in love with his new computer.
Have been using the Mac Pro Retina for 3 weeks now.
Hope Apple fixes this through a update for mountain lion.# Reset PRAM# Reset SMC
It takes a couple of days to understand the system.
I ask for rufund and seller says that i have three months with the laptop and i cant return it.
Apple backed out of green tech ratings when this laptop came out.
The switch from PC to Mac can be frustrating.
Good luck setting up any network device without a wired connection.
Configuration: 2.6 GHz Processor / 512 GB Storage / 16gb ramAs a graphic designer and photographer I ordered the new Macbook as soon as I heard about the upgraded display.
I decided to try a MacBook for the first time.
With Windows 8 coming out, I decided to jump off the PC ship and try Apple iOS.
J & R had the best price.
Now, rMBP got a 7.2 score due to the graphic card, and I got 7.6 (CPU), 7.7 (RAM), 7.9 (hard drive), very similar to my desktop system (about $2500) and I am paying only $2145 by being a student for my rMBP, right?
I already purchased an external bluray writer (Samsung) for $90 and a 500Gb thunderbolt/USB 3.0 Buffalo external hard drive ($210), as well as thunderbolt/ethernet adapter.
About 2 months after purchasing the MBP I purchased an 11" MacBook Air for portability.
I personally have mine set to the highest "scaled" resolution (1920 x 1200), which was the native resolution on the 17" MBP before it was discontinued.
All of the Apple claims for this machine are true.
psd).
hoping to buy another one.~~~
I have had to reboot at least once each day as the cursor (track pad) goes unstable.
Update as of 1/29 -  instability with external trackpad has been reduced to just random occurrence.
I am Java & Grails developer, and after my disk drive on my Windows7 died, I took the plunge and switched to OSX.
I was able to get the lowest-end retina for $1899 due to a student discount and a $100  itunes gift card which I sold to my roommate.
Everything works as advertised.
The battery life is as stated.
Pros:- The improvement in speed due to better hardware spec (CPU, memory, SSD,...) is a given.
The adapter cost $29 and it takes 1 out of 2 available Thunderbolt port.
CRISP even when its set to the lowest (biggest fonts) resolution.
Got this for graduation using the Amazon Store extended pay plan.
But for a student regular MacBook Pro does the same job as this once.
I have been trying to buy this for over a week and have had my account repeatedly put on hold for reasons I am unable to find out.
Amazons vetting department is a law unto themselves, will not communicate and will still not remove the hold despite the bank assurances there is no reason.
-amazing laptop, only problem is who in the hell creates a computer with 128GB of storage!
A day and a half and 4 support sessions later, I have tried everything from installing and installing two different versions of the Mac OSX Installer and trying a system reboot with OS upgrade.
The computer runes very smoothly and boot up times for applications is very fast!
Another small difference from a daily business user.
I had an old dell laptop and finally decided to upgrade and this one is great.
A great investment for anyone who is looking to upgrade their computer experience!
However, the price kills everything.$1699 for 13.3 inch laptop?2012 Macbook air 13 for 1,099 on Amazon.
Listen to their voice.
I think I am about 90% settled on a 2012 256GB Air 13 (I paid 1000 for that one from Amazon).
After I get both I will try the day to day stress test during my return window for the Retina.
So easy  to use with friendly support team to answer all questions.
My daughter is now using the MBA and she is thrilled with the new machine, and I am thrilled with the massive upgrade.
Awesome for reading text(except to spend million hours on Quora reading Q/A) and coding.
Best computer in the world.
Enjoy how fast the system boots up, had trouble updating the Operating system, the Apple store helped with no charge.
Is a must buy with iWork.
Meaning after you have purchased the item, you review it based on experience with the item, NOT ASSUMPTIONS AND PREMONITIONS!
Even the macbook air (2010) model, got the fans to start spinning when downloading applications.
U guys is just mad u no can has a beautiful macbook with old specs.
friend of mine has one of this.
And ontop of that they charge $2k for this?This is such an embarrassment to Apple customers it literally makes them look retarded for buying this because it would just show they only buy this for the brand name logo.
Same situation like how tugs buy Nike and Jordan sneakers just for the brand name.
It is not the newest model and it is not a savings of $479.01!
The newest model is a 2.6 Ghz processor (not 2.5) with 256 GB HD and 8 GB memory) for $1699.00...  this product description does not add up and is false advertising!
Then , the first time i tried to connect a usb pen drive I realize the one in the left is dead!
However, the price kills everything.$1999 for 13.3 inch laptop?2012 Macbook air 13 for 1,099 on Amazon.
Listen to their voice.
The power button is now a key on the keyboard (which is different from my old MBP).
It starts up in like 5 sec and when sleeping it wakes up as soon as I open the device.
Bought this for my wife for her birthday and she loves it.
battery runs forever.
Phone support is best in the world.
Retina is getting to be where the future is.
WOW - Hard to find anything wrong with this purchase.
There are computer users whose main use for a computer is downloading music and accessing the Internet.
Something like an Average looking guy would feel towards a handsome hunk in school, just wondering how and why females drool over him, what does he have other than a face like a Greek god and hair like strands of gold.
But the biggest irony follows when you find out that the hunk is a really nice, fun guy to be with and u become best friends the first time you get to know each other.
We have bought several new laptops latey and the staff love their new Macs.
With this review Id like to shed some light and hope to help those who are hesitating whether to buy a MacBook or a Windows notebook into making the right choice.
Mac has some key features: being able to drag-and-drop anything from an application to another without needs of worrying it crash suddenly (which happens quite often on Windows for me), great task management with Expos and Spaces.
(eg.
Microsoft Office Professionals, Adobe Master Collection)Design:MacBook has the full aluminum casing sporting a pretty silver color, slim and sleek body design.
NOW THE ILLUMINATION ON KEY BOARD HAS GONE OUT.
The best laptop money can buy!
The mac arrived in perfect condition.
I currently graduated college with a Graphic Design Degree and am currently interning with 2 freelance editorial illustrators from the Pittsburgh, PA area and i wanted to purchase a mac to do some work on.
Ive owned PCs only for the longest time and used mac in college.
There was only 1 choice - the new Macbook Pro.
The shipment and delivery was prompt and the package was as described.
We bought it thru Amazon because they have prompt delivery(2 days after placing the regular order!!)
We have bought several new laptops latey and the staff love their new Macs.
This is something you will not see in the beautiful world of "demos" displayed in your local Apple stores since they will only have Mac OSX on these computers.
Finally able to buy, I spent almost 2 months deciding which iMac/MacBook to buy.
I ordered this for my son who is going away to college.
I decided to try a Macbook Pro(13"/8G/256G) instead.
There was an anxious moment (first 2 weeks after its release) since its keypad sometimes locks the system.
This laptop is for my granddaughter who just graduated from high school.
She had to get a player driver for her pictures.
Only drawback is installing software.
Bought this MacBook as a gift for my cousin months ago.
Since she bought another MacBook for herself we decided to return it.
She returned the gift to Amazon a day after  she received the package.
Still waiting the Amazon representatives to solve the problems they created.
Intially the wifi was good, but after 2-3 weeks it started to malfunction
All my former Windows 7 applications now run on the Windows 8 upgrade that I installed two days after my purchase of this computer.
However, upon investigation, it was realized that the size of the hard drive was actually 588GB with ONLY 554GB available to be used.
However, the product was promptly shipped after ordering with no damages to its package and materials.
All other features (other than hard drive size) were true as advertised.
Dell Inspiron i15N-2728BK 15.6-Inch Laptop (Black)
This was a steal at under $400!!
Other area to work is battery life.
Also All the LAPTOP oem should learn from Apple how to design charging adapter for laptop.
After scouring the reviews, features and price points, I settled on this laptop for my son who is in high school.
This is a relatively inexpensive stop gap to keep him going before all functions are ready available thru phone service.
We travelled overseas with new laptop and now in complete mess, struggling to get support in other country.
I purchased this laptop for my daughter, who is currently in college and she has had nothing but problems out of it.
Needless to say, she is spending her time in the computer lab to complete class assignments.
Afterwards, i realised that it was due to poor packaging on the part of the supplier.
Bottom line, order at  your own risk.
For the price, a true bargain.
This laptop (hardware-wise) is great.
The front plastic cover is partly detouched from the back aluminiun on the sides (near the left and right hindges).
However, this has been a serious setback for ASUS since asus is not willing to fix it (even though the laptop is just over a year old).
Hundreds of posts on the internet.
Computer constantly disconnects from wireless router.
Just wanted another Windows native machine for work and travel purpose.
But wake up time from sleep is instant.
(1 start knocked out for this)- Slow boot time from shutdown (approx 24 seconds).
Be ware the ac adapter and cable breaks very easily, and you will end up buying another one which is not that easy since they only sell one that is for travel purposes...
With MacBook Air you have to spend money for an Ethernet Adapter that is only rated for 10/100 Ethernet and uses up one of the two USB2 ports.
Out of the box the laptop has only 71Gb of free space.
With MacBook Air recovery can be initiated via network connection so it comes with about 25Gb more space out of the box.
(Or Mac owner).
It can be a struggle to open it, with no indentation or identified spot to lift the lid (annoying!)2.
It runs hot, and the power cord gets very hot when using it plugged in.3.
Beware the claims of Gorilla Glass protecting the display of this Ultrabook.
The laptop was thoroughly protected and stored in a safe place.
Skype works well (no speaker feedback into the internal mic.
)Am taking 1 star out for1.
HP claims that there is "higher than expected call volume" on the weekend, when the simple fact is they under-staff on the weekend.
com/Zenbook-UX31E-DH52-13-3-Inch-Ultrabook-Aluminum/dp/B005SY32Q2/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid;=1339369625&sr;=8-1&keywords;=UX31-RSL8) a few months back.
$1200ish from Amazon and BB.
Feels (and looks )like a smaller Macbook keyboard.-Upgradable (will get into that in a sec)-Really nice charger, small and has a extra USB port in it for charging a cell phone.
I also bought a screen type protector that I am going to install on the top of the glass surfacecover(on the outside, not the screen).
Netflix is never able to run smoothly.
This device broke within a month.
this product arrived broken.
The one thing her employer liked the most was the battery life ( 9.5 hrs.)
On her first day she reported having  48% power left at the end of the day.
The blue-tooth is great the hard drive is 500 gigs ( for a net-book that is just great), and the version of Windows is 64-bit home premium.
It finally packed up after 1 yr and a few months.
this was bought for a high school student.
Trackpad(mouse) - The trackpad can sense up to 5 fingers at a time.
This allows you to scroll using two fingers, zoom in by pinching, rotate with two fingers, and if you have windows 8, you can swipe in from sides of the trackpad, to open switch programs, go to start, and more.
The lid and center of the inside is metallic silver, and the inside is bordered with metallic black.
Good for school, work, and mobile use.
I gave it to my daughter about two months ago and she uses it for everything and it works great!
The first one crashed after a few days.
And when I requested my money back, they told me "call me so we can send a computer in a better condition."
They said it was not included - when it clearly states it is.
This is the second laptop I have ordered from this company (Tampa-laptops).
I saved alot of money and can afford to replace it down the road when they all become outdated again.
com  to purchase and save on refurbished laptops.
this company is a man of his word .
Stillo using after 2 years.
This was the perfect solution for her.
I put a 256 gig drive in (very simple upgrade btw) and now I can store my complete music collection and whatever office documents I can throw at it.
Product came with a dead battery and the sound card lasted approx 1 month when only using it once a week to skype with a family member.
An old computer (it still has a floppy drive!)
They really stand behind their product.
Bought for my Mom who needed something for emails and internet info searches.
She is using it now and is working well.
Bought this for my 5 year old daughter and she loves it.
All she wants to do is play games on nick jr, watch animals on youtube and cartoons on netflix.
Our daughter never touches her laptop.
Dead on Arrival - It took over two weeks to get refunded.
Steve Culpculpspecial@yahoo.
Manuel Ferreira S.
The only PC game I play is Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 which runs well except for when I use night mode.
We had to get used to the keyboard keys - if you hit them under a certain angle (if you are further from the laptop than usual, for instance) there is a chance of accidentally bumping one off its clasps.
i bought this computer five months ago.
buyer beware asus will not accept any form of purchase proof to honor their warranty.
It was a birthday present for my wife and she loves it.
I decided to used amazon reviews to find out which model to get.
I have since bought another one from another merchant, and I now want to by a 3rd unit but I think inventory is getting low due to the hollidays.
Things are changing fast in the pc world so I did not want to spend top dollar during this changing times.
Laptop is not working after only 3 1/2 months of purchase.
Had some problems with cold start (crashed), but restart OK. Down loaded new BIOS and trying to down load new drivers.
A million things can go wrong.
Perfect for the wife to have her own laptop to run her out of home business.
Has everything she needs!
I wish they would keep their employees in the U. S.
Just retired and needed a reliable computer for home and travel.
Compact and easy to travel with.
Our first Dell with Windows XP Home lasted about nine years.
Had some problems in the beginning.
Downloaded Office 2013 - tool Microsoft 15 hours to get it to work.
Crashed twice and had to be wiped cleaned and complete reload.
I bought this computer for her, and she loves it.
the "Dell Inspiron 15 i 15N 1900Bk 15.6 Inch Laptop (Obsidian Black)" is exelent for work and have elegant designe
Everyone who needs a new laptop should get one of these Windows 7 models while they are still available and spare yourselves the pain of struggling with Windows 8.
I wanted to buy a windows 7 computer before they were all gone.
All computers purchased in the past where ready to go.
No, problems with the laptop after about a month.
Starts quick, runs fast.
My problem with this computer is that three days out of the gate it began to hang during the boot-up.
!Hank FreemanSenior SQL Server DBA\Data Architect.
bought this for my son who is in his senior year of high school  lasted 8 months than crashed.
Geek squad said hard drive  is gone ?
said it will be sent for repairs  will take at least 2 weeks...  he has 4 weeks left of school :(Agree with other reviews about all the cons, he regrets his choice.
The whole software planet, including Microsoft, is catching up to 64 bit functionality utilization.
After a couple of months of pain, trying to have a decisive response from Samsung  Technical Support I decided to get rid of it and make the loss.
They might have lost the leading way they were developing on Laptops.
The good news is that Samsung listens to users and has improved their customer service.
:)
First question is what do I use the laptop for?I use Photoshop CS4, Visual Studio 2010  (IDE for software development/programming), SQL server 2008 for development purposes, Video editing in various programs, lightroom, running Office 2010 etc....
It can manage 30-50 fps (frames per second) with the setting turned up for character definition.
The laptop is designed to switch between>  The temp while gaming...
Perfect companion during trips with huge battery life... Light weight and no issues after more than an year...!!
Bought this notebook to replace an Asus UL30A which I had for several years and loved (my daughter is now using it).
bought it during the lightning deal.
I actually ordered this unit for a South Sudanese friend and had another friend hand carry it to Africa for me...
Had to return item - hopefully for exchange.
Five Stars... Buy with confidence.
It starts up and shuts down quickly.
I requested a refund several times and each time got shot down by the seller.
Disk Management reads "No Media."
update: The new laptop arrived and has been in pretty heavy use now for a few weeks.
Amazon was amazing as usual; overnight delivery on the original arrived as scheduled and the exchange was processed immediately and the replacement laptop was shipped before they received the package.
unit arrived with internal wi fi adapter non functional, and an after market adapter plugged into one of the three USB ports.
Suggested accessories: mouse, and speakers.
This laptop is a gaming laptop runs skyrim on medium and bf3 on medium and arma 2 on high league of legends the cod games up to mw3 havent tested the blackops 2 and this stays cool.
My husband bought this for work to take with him when he travels.
I bought this machine for my Dad, as well as a friend who was visiting the US and asked for a recommendation, as I already have an Asus gaming machine that I love.
The power cord failed and quit working after less than 3 months.
I used Minitool Partition Wizard Home Edition (free version) to delete the D: partition and extend the C: partition to the full drive.
Biggest problem is that the backlighting on the screen doesnt come back up about half the time when the computer is woken from sleep.
UPDATE - After about two months, I had some kind of accident and the screen was broken.
I found out after researching that ASUS has a one year free replacement for user damage.
Turned the laptop on and began having issues right away.
After finally getting everything loaded I used it for 2 days and then it wouldnt turn on.
Took it to a computer repair place and turns out the mother board is fried.
This computer had both software and hardware issues when it arrived brand new.
used by a student who uses it for web browsing and microsoft office.
bought it for a friend in the hospital.
He got it in two days and loves it.
Bought this for a friend, the 6520G graphics blows Intel HD 3000 out of the water.
Tested NFS The Run (Frostbite 2 engine) works on medium low settings.
No frills, functional laptop for general office, home use.
We are using this computer as the server on our wifi network.
The power supply can charge ipods/iphones about as fast as the wall charger.
But the hard drive went down with in 6 months.
They agreed to ship it back to Asus but the company stated they would replace the harddrive but I would need to buy the back up disc for $50.
Since they are using it mostly to check email and surf the Internet, the computer definitely meets their needs.
My son has an Asus he bought 2 years ago.
Purchased 2 months ago for Xmas for the girlfriend.
Super fast internet.
A happy customer :) who would recommend this computer to others.
Now not only I suffer from this problem, because I bought it through Amazon and not from a local vendor, I have to take the laptop myself to the Asus lab (instead of them picking it up from me had I not bought it from Amazon), which is an hour out of town.
The laptop will stay there for a week(!)
I am a 78 year old novice who just wanted something to take out on the deck and work on Ancestry.
But in light of slowness am sending back.
We travel in a RV when we can and need it to keep in touchwith the world.
got this for a family member for Christmas gift.
After one month the computer is working great everyday with no problems.
I bought this as a present for my wife, when she needed to replace her old laptop.
Has larger monitor than her last one (an older Dell Inspiron).
This system comes with the Windows 7 Home Premium (64-bit) OS, and requires few system resources to perform the routine operations described above.
Stay away - Asus laptops have problems they refuse to fix.
great price and quality- I bought this for my daughter to use in High School- She loves it- She has created power point presentations and written reports while still being able to store and manage all her photos and social media- great buy!
Delivery was on time and computer is in tip top top shape.
Unfortunately unable to return.
Because Amazon only had a thirty day window.
I took the risk because i got an Asus tablet (Transformer)for Christmas which i really enjoy so wanted to take the chance.
After an intensive search I decided to order the Asus U31sg-AS52 laptop from Amazon.
I also upgraded the operating system to Windows Professional 7 what resolved some of the connectivity issues with projectors and the internet.
The processor is able to run Microsoft Office 2010, statistical programs, video editing software smoothly and is able to browse the web at the same time.
The technical support is located in India.
You get a technician who has a hard time speaking English and who does not know what an "Optimus technology" is.
The misleading information from the seller Amazon does not help any further!
And they refuse to replace a new one for me in the first 2 month for the problem.
I have to purchase a new one just after one year and 2 month!
Excellent laptop, perfect for high school boy with light weight to carry daily to school.
For whatever reason, which I guess must be that I am inadvertently hitting something that causes the cursor to go who the ef nows where, I am constantly losing my place.
my husband bought this laptop for gaming and he loves it.
By the middle of August the monitor was shot.
She just turned it on one day and there was a dark spot in the lower left hand corner of the monitor.
The computer is now useless.
When we used it to see youtube, the pictures suddenly becomes some strange color bars.
this laptop is amazing for gamers, it run Diablo 3 and SWTOR on max smoothly.
my son is on this machine literally 14-18 hours per day for the last 3 years and not one problem.
The purchasing, and receiving was done speedy and professional.
I have had this laptop for a few weeks now and I am very impressed,I am an avid gamer and I did upgrade the single 750 gig harddrive to dual SSd drive shortly after I recived it.
and will also charge when the laptop is turned off and unplugged.
Update 9/19: Just swapped out the old disk for a 1TB SSD (Crucial).
Ability to clean fan filters (big)...
The old G73J was having a heating problem.
Back to normal now.
Over 400-500plus FPS on simple graphics, 50+ on mid range (full screen), 15 on EXTREME.
I am able to run XCOM, Eve Online ( 2 accounts) and Star Trek Online all at the same time with almost no lag...
When I purchased this laptop it arrived with a different graphics card than the one advertised on the site.
The website claims this laptop has an Nvidia GEFORCE 670M with 3 GB of dedicated graphics memory.
Everything else arrived as advertised.
It worked well for a while but recently, it began crashing.
Update:I purchased the Samsung Series 7 Gamer (NP700G7C-S02US).
Samsung has stepped up their game.
I do a lot of Vbox work for testing and the Vaio often held up but would have random crashings (linux or windows) and to get Linux to run on the vaio was a pain in the bum.
The new ASUS works just about out of the box with Linux (aside from the Nvidia Drivers / Brightness / Bluetooth / certain fn keys).
For now seems to have been the right choice.
:)
this computer met every expectation of mine.
As I own 2 Asus notebooks and have been using their motherboards for over 10 years in custom desktop builds I figured no problem.
:(So sending the notebook back will not solve the problem unless they install a different wifi-card.
One small note however, its difficult to find a laptop sleeve / case / backpack due to the dimensions.
Installing the SSD was easy and required only a small Philips head screwdriver for all screws along with a wide flathead screwdriver to help pop open the bottom cover.
The laptop has two bays along with a frame over each bay.
Next problem was that the touchpad software driver from asus is incomplete.
I understand now why i hear radio ads from computer store advertising to remove it and replace with win 7.
This laptop purchased in Sept 2012 for nearly $1,400 and registered with ASUS is defective and needs to be returned.
Apparently other users have encountered this same issue.
Regardless of the cause, we now to exchange the defective laptop for a new unit.
I was in the market for a new computer and I wanted a Laptop, I researched and bought this G75VW, I love this machine !
It performs  comprable to my desktop on wheels (  watercooled i7 3.4 ghz, Geforce GTX 580, 250 gig ssd, 16gig ram. )
The problem with ultra portable is they dont have dvd/cd media readers.
Now a days everyone has an external one.
Has a DVD tray (no need for an external one:)3.
Few days after purchasing a Toshiba laptop (Portege R835-P89) I got a blue screen.
Toshiba charge $99 to diagnose and fix the issue for one time.
I had bought three computers for our Small Business.
And the mouse keys are a but clunky when pressed.
I bought one of these computers and I quickly had a series of three complete failures.
Each iteration of tech support had the technician unable to fix it without a one to two week part turnaround.
After three failures I am now fighting with an completely calloused Toshia customer support staff.
Toshiba is a consumer electronics company.
The order was shipped from a Missouri shop called Kaikai Jakestore on 25th and from what we could track at the same day  it arrived to Kansas on 25th.
Fedex just lied all the way saying that they have processed this situation to their related department and  Kaikai Jakestore never answering even once their customer service line, just started to send mails of indifference i. e proposing a full refund, not charging expetied shipment until they finaly admit that they made a mistake by choosing FEDEX ground shipment i. e a truck driving all the way fm Kansas to Oxnard CA.
Meanwhile there was an email chain of 20 but none reaching to a solution,trying to find the missing mysterious Toshiba.
It has three USB, a card reader, HDMI, and a network port.
The round power plug shaft needs to be designed with a detent to help hold the plug in securely.
Everything is very primitive, no output for a projector (requires a separately sold connector), camera-microphone failed in the first month, called support about it.
Many hours on the phone finally got a technician sent home, he replaced the camera+microphone.
Of course this happened just after the warranty ran out.
it has a long battery life (8-9 hours).
(all under windows 8.
After changing that to 100% under AC (left the battery setting at 60%), the windows number is 7.2.
Update:  Installed 8 gig of Corsair Vengence ram... huge improvement in video performance (now up to 6.7)and over all speed.
Besides that is pratically a ultrabook (little chunkier).
When configuring to use encrypted drives, it takes forever to boot up.2.
Buy a new one and not a used one from them or any other reputable seller.
Fast startup, handles multple programs openings well and charges fast.
Always buy best warranty!One Month later!!
Still waiting on the acutal refund so have to spend extra money to get a new laptop while waiting for the actual refund!
The hinge popped open after a year (just past warranty..).
Sorry for contributing to the erosion of brick and mortar stores.
I was very impressed with this laptop considering what Amazon sold it for (I purchased this machine for $329 during their back to school promotional sale event.)
she is in highschool and needs alot of memory for her projects.
Works well and after a year old, still have good battery life.
Got one for my mom a couple of months ago and she has no complaints.
After researching carefully and owning a few other types of computers all with problems, I finally found the perfect match.
Arrived very shortly after ordering and was easy to register, set up and start using.
set up didnt take long 30 min max.
Purchased this laptop as back up for $480.00  Laptop was used only ones.
Called customer service  for help .
bought this for my daughter for 5th grade graduation.
The Laptop also came with a new battery and an airport extreme card already installed.
Playing diablo now is like an entire new game, max settings no problem, looks amazing, sound is amazing (diablo 3 is still disapointing).
Had it now for 5 months.
CD-Rom disables itself, have to go into device manager to re-enable, tried to update driver, currently up to date.
Heat output is getting worse by the day.
However the useless driver disk they shipped doesnt have drivers?
Now im stuck with a $1500 internet surfer that over heats.
The video on this unit keeps crashing.
I contacted MSI and had to pay $47.63 dollars to ship it back to them.
I love the laptop (If it worked) But 50.00 dollars to ship a faulty, in warrenty item back is crazy.
I;m very happy with this ComputerPros:Very Fast; playing all my games in ultra, SC2 , Mass Effect 3 , Deus Ex HRBright ScreenBeautiful KeyboardDesign is gorgeousAll my music software runs smooth with plugins and up to 80 tracks at a timeGREAT!!
it was sent to me from my girlfriend which is normal, and  was sent quickly to her.
Had the MSI GT70 for a few months now.
So now im left with no laptop for 3 weeks ( While im in college ) and have to pay the shipping to get it fixed.
If your computer does have a malfunction, prepare to pay the 50$ shipping fee.
One thing to note, it did not come equiped to handle VMs, the BIOS on these machines is extremely locked down and MSI had not set the setting to VT-x to "on" in the default BIOS, they have since resolved that issue with an update.
Also, getting into the laptop from the bottom side is a little "iffy."
The information of the seller is correct.
After using this product for a month, I have concluded the following:Pros:1.
Can run multiple games (Counterstrike, diablo 3, and starcraft with no lag simultaneously)Cons:1.
After I created the dell restore disks I decided to partition.
Windows 8 behaved differently in two weeks.
This was my fourth laptop in a month or two after receiving an returning three others that were defective or junk out of the box.
Ended up wiping the drive and loading Windows 7 from scratch, only to have the same issues a couple of days later.
AND the audio is to die for
Purchased an Asus laptop for my son going away to college, the first one came promptly but had to be returned due to technical software issues.
Amazon quickly sent a replacement laptop, unfortunately the number 5 key did not work on the replacement one.
Returned that one as well, requested a full refund and purchased an Apple Mac Book directly from Apple.
The young man for whom it was purchased just can not keep his hand off of it.
Some bloatware that can be removed and the usual McAfee AV software limited trial (will replace and use Avast).
Laptop does a great job with games (does very well on BF3 and Skyrim).
Most of the time I was unable to adjust the screen/keyboard brightness (which I have still yet to fix)And the CD drive seems to keep disappearing from the device list on the computer.
Talking with Asus is a pain though, as it takes over 3 days to get a reply via email, and I waited for 3 hours in chat one day and never got a chance to talk.
Lots of bloatware, but we took it to our local computer lab and they got rid of them.
he was impressed with the asus.
Said he used to like the toshiba as his top choice, but this Asus made a believer out of him.
Shipment included a very nice gaming mouse and a professional quality backpack;4.
Yet to try out any GPU/CPU/Memory intensive tasks.
Tried the default keys F10 F12 ESC etc.
Within the 1st month of use the DVD drive began to act up.
Needs to go back for repair or replacement of drive.
However, the mouse lags HORRIBLY at random times.
(Pressing keyboard keys do not produce any results in browser search or login windows).
Letter "V" requires to be pressed multiple times to work.
Asus backs their product well.
A friend of his got the exact same computer and hasnt had any issues.
The friend is getting 300fps while my son is only getting 100fps.
So fast and runs all the games in max settings, SWTOR, max payne3, batman AC etc.
After Alienware dropped the 15" product line, this is probably the only "portable" gaming notebook around in the market.
The manual is a generic manual and has no information on the specific machine.- There is no way to find out how to upgrade the memory to 16Gb, no documentation, no help from Asus.
For example, the sound volume control keys do not work, the screen is not turned on when a key is pressed (need to press a function key) .
This Asus was available with Windows 7 (not only 8) - which was a must - and has the power.
I will add a SSD drive for the system either after warranty expires (location is buried deep) or find an Asus qualified shop to install.
I have been playing games from across the years and each one of them comes up with clear images and no lag.
The computer is light weighted and the HP logo lighted on the back is awesome.
Waiting for HP to ship complementary Windows 8 upgrade.
I spent forever searching for a laptop with the specs that I wanted.
Amazing battery life - forget the power supply.
:))))
I ordered on a Thursday and received it on the next Saturday morning.
Until I found a friend with a battery that fit, this unit would not charge due to an old bios problem.
cons: - Overheating when you play games like Skyrim, diablo 3 even if it is running smoothly on max setting.
The temperature reaches up to 184 F ( 84 C).
The temperature is ranging from 70 to 75 C with medium resolution for Skyrim.
Laptop arrived one week ahead of time.
Supplier ensured that the item was shipped within 48hours.
was in 2008 and was a top of the line for the time (processor, memory, ect.
i have not had one issue to speak off after 2 months of operation.
The only con was when I upgraded to windows 8 the battery life reduced by 30-40%
From the time of purchase to the time of delivery - everything was clockwork.
This Sony VAIO E series was purchased for my nephew who is beginning his first year in Medicine.
If you are a die hard sony fan, order from their website because they have very good deals, right now they are giving a free i7 upgrade.
We needed a new laptop for our home, and we have been very happy with the Sony.
The only consern is about the Antivirus software, which could be with one year free usage and not an one month.
The Sony VAIO come preinstalled with microsoft windows 7 home premium and microsoft office starter 2010.
Running several instals at once while browsing the web and playing Minecraft all at the same time, seamlessly!
The keyboard (with number pad!)
I spent 6 hrs with sony support(4 or 5 different techs) I was told there was a problem with the driver and we would use the restore system to correct the issue.
and elected to return the laptop.
30 day return policy was honered.
(great company}
The packaging was superb and the system meet all the specification.
Six months after buying a brand new sony the motherboard is busted.
Turns out this happens alot with sony computer.
Either the motherboard breaks(which cost $300 to replace) or you have to relpace the ram.
So decided to make a change and purchased a Sony this time around after doing some comparing.
(in less than 10 months!!)..
Customer support is clueless.. they dont seem to care and dont want to help!!
A great computer for the sub $800 price.
However, the keys on the keyboard respond slowly.
Vaio (or Windows) has tried hard to make the touchpad similar to the one in Mac but its nowhere close3.
For $570.
PS my ACER is now my new home unit.
although heating is ok, the fan is always working (and noisy) Sony never listens customers.
The computer is very beautiful and the shipping was fast.
It weighs 5.2 ounces (the brick and the non- detachable cord that goes from the brick to the computer.)
The brick dimensions are 3.5" long, 1 3/8" wide and 1" high.
The competition (Samsung series 5, Asus UX32A and Acer S5) generally has only a 24GB SSD.
Fast boot and sleep functions.
External features:Left: power, two USB3 portsRight: ethernet, VGA, HDMI (incl.
audio), SD/MMC, headphone jack (no mic jack)Removable battery cover reveals extra RAM slot (2GB max I believe)Two speaker holes on the front panelWebcam and mic located above screenFn (right of the left Ctrl button) controls touchpad, volume, brightness, ext display, numlk, scrlk, page navigationThree extra buttons: Assist (does nothing), Web (opens web browser), VAIO (customizable)Touchpad is like the new macbook: one large surface, tap/press to click, programmable right-click regionComes with synaptics software, multi/gesture support
Let me start by explaining that we are the typical Silicon Valley family, complete with a house full of computers and electronics.
So infested are we  that my 7 year old son has been whining for more than a year that he NEEDS a laptop to play Minecraft with his older brother and friends and that we are "hogging" ours all the time.
When asked what he wanted for his birthday/Christmas (very close together for him) he simply said "a laptop".
Specially for those who worries about the weight.
Technicians wanted me to send the computer to the shop but is very hard for me to stop working.
This is the Mac for the Pcs except for the jet in the machine that is about to take off :).
Sony recently, had to recall several notebooks because of the heating problem, think they over solved it with this machine.
A handsome product in aluminum.
This was recommended by a friend, who is very into computers/tech etc.
Everything is new, up to next one.
Blue ray is the sony discovery and this will be try to load the ultrabook.
Amazon customer service, however, is always the best.
After 30 days the hard drive went out.
Wait till you attempt to get someting repaired by Sony under their warranty.
finally gave up and took it to GTeek Squad and had a new hard drive put in for $250.00.
However thats where the problem begins.
Well about two days later(still getting the high disk usage warning)  I went to boot up my computer and it said Start up failed????
So this morning I log on to my computer and as I am looking at a report for a client(he is on the phone) my brand new laptop freezes, goes blue, then shuts down.
Also what they are saying is that even though I paid for a new computer after I send it in to Sony and only owning it for a little over a week that I will have a refurbished computer.
This is our 2nd computer in 39 days.
the first one lasted 34, and then the comupter said no operating system was found.
We contacted amazon, and they sent out a replacement right away, Thursday, two days ago I recieved the new laptop, only to have the operating system fail again.
"student use daily" 3 stars is sufficient.
This laptop is great and love the backlit keyboard for night use!
The name lives up to the hype.
When you call for service you are connected to another country and are told that this computer should only be sold in Latin America, in other words incompetence, so you still cannot get any help.
So now im sending it to sony to have it fixed.
I am the proud owner of several Sony VAIOs - and yes - I named them... and think of them as family.
They could have added Windows 8 as it was close to the launch of Windows 8 .
it is very short time that he has it 3-4 days only ) till now, seems no problem) delivery was on time .
After just one year, the battery wont charge anymore.
After installing an usb wi-fi, the internal wi-fi would try to shut the usb wi-fi down,finally was able to turn off the interinal wi-fi so that it would stop interfering.
I purchased this laptop for my teenage daughter for school and it is suitable for her usage.
I bought 1 for my son 6 years ago and it held up well without any trouble when he was in High school.
Now I have bought a 2ond for my daughter to take some night classes on.
Eventho she had some problems, when we contacted amazon they stritened them right out.
They even sent a second computer before she returned the first, so she could retrive her work she had already done.
After deleting the program my laptop began to operate smoothly and fast.
The tech also mentioned a security program called "system mechanic" this program constantly scans and repairs any glitches that your computer may incounter.
This program cost $129.00 for a three year subscription however I can download it to any computer I own, this is where the sysyem mechanic becomes a bargain as I have 3 computers in my household, and now all of them are covered by this program.
(with Windows 7 on it)Here are the pros:-  1.
Cons:-  1.
com - could not able to use this site.
I had gotten a DELL 3 years ago for my then 9 year old daughter.
Everything runs smoothly, and it is a great deal for around $750.
The speakers also seem to under perform since they are located underneath the front area of the laptop.
The USB and HDMI port on the side is covered by a pesky cover that has to be removed after every use.
My last laptop, HP 17 " died and the computer store operator suggested this 17"dell Inspiron for durability.
Meets the needs I have for teaching on-line courses and organizing on-campus classes.
(Free shipping and it only took five days total time.
Had one issue with dropping internet connection.
After speaking with a supervisor, the best they could offer was to have a technician come to my house at some point after a replacement keyboard was sent to the technician.
I contacted Amazon support and they immediately offered to send another replacement.
I have not opened the third laptop (in 4 days) yet, but am hoping I do not discover immediate problems.
After setting power option for WIFI to be maximal performance, the problem went away.
32GBSSD vs. 16GB).
Its small size and "powerful" (based on my needs) CPU runs productivity software quite well, and is great for travelling.
After about 2 hours of effort on their part, they were able to resolve the difficulties.
The online tech guys just repeated over and over that they will not replace the computer just the parts (the parts keep breaking).
He found it easy to use and is playng solitaire and typing some documents (baby steps).
the response time for internet connection is fast and the softwares downloaded after receiving the computer work smoothly without any problems.
The latest scheme from this ripoff company is to not honor their warranty.
My DELL went bad after 3 months and they decided that I had to buy a software package in order for them to fix the problem--a problem caused by software that DELL installed on its DELL computer.
I did tons of research to find a working computer for school work.
I bought this for my husband for Christmas and he loved it as soon as he took it out of the box.
but due to noice i am returning this and planning to order new one.
My daughter who is studying overseas was planning to take it with her.
For sometime until today morning (Jan 2, 2013) the Amazon web site itself indicated that Amazon has stopped selling this Dell model because of significant negative buyer feedback (even though other sellers on Amazon were apparently still selling this model).
Reading up about SSDs, just about everyone and their best friend installs the operating system to them.
I believe it has a 23kWh battery (according to the bottom of the laptop) with a draw of 4kWh.
the company never returned the money.
this was delivered  15AUG12, after a few hours of hell trying to figure out what the heck was wrong with this computer, I finally had a friend with a Masters degree in computer science take a look at this computer, a few minutes went by and Wha-la,  It was infected with a porn virus from a previous owner,  that leads me to say that this was NOT a brand NEW computer as stated on Amazons site,  Yep,  I sent it back !
This item was provided by a private seller and turned out to be a different product.
The only specification that was listed was the inclusion of Windows 7 64 bit, but only because it was bought by the seller (the unit had a sticker stating it was designed for Windows Vista).
We saved money and sales tax by getting it on amazon (saved about $100 over buying it locally at walmart here in Peoria, IL)  Win, Win!!
!Update: 6 months later: The keyboard has always had an issue with the (") quote key.
It does not place the " on the keyboard until after you type it & then have to hit the space key.
Took 2 days, and several hours on the phone with both Dell and Microsoft to resolve the situation.
Staff uses laptops out in the field.
In fact, have ordered another one.
The laptop worked fine initially then shut down and never started back.
I contacted Dell and they sent a representative to change the mother board after about 10 days.
The specifications given on the Amazon site advertise an "Intel Core_i7_3612QM Processor 2.1GHz" processor.
The crashes began the fist day.
Was crashing up to 10 times a day .
support reinstalled back to out of box etc.
A couple of keys broke.
I went back to being broke, but now I own the game!
I have been on a quest to find the perfect laptop for over two months.
Chicklet keys (that light up!)
Looks are attracting everyone around.
Black paint on key board is scratch prone.
i had issues when i first got it, motherboard went out but Dell hurried and sent a new one and a repair man for free.
skyrim is awesome on it must buy
I am a regular user (work in th university in the Economy department) only use it for working (Office, statistics programs), for mail/skype/facebook, searching stuff on the web and watching movies.
The computer feels very fast, is very light (1.8 kg aprox), the battery runs for long time (6 hours when it is fully charged), and the view in the monitor is very clear.
I had a problem with the keyboard (a couple of keys did not function properly), but this is more a positive issue for the product more than a negative: I called to Dell support service from Argentina, and they had a post-sale service shop in my town (Tandil, a medium-smal city in Argentina).
They asked for a new keyboard to the US and in less than a month the problem was solved (that seems preety fast, considering the import restriction policy of our country).
It like Dell went to 99% (may 95%) and then gave up.
I bought this computer recently after doing a tremendous of research.
These are myimmediate reactions after using it for about a week.
Hated to send the XPS back when we were done with the case.
Quick to charge, quick to start.
I was sold a year old computer as new.
When it died , dell was no help as they said warranty had been registered by a previous owner and warranty expired before I had purchased the computer.
Sellers response was that it was beyond their 30 day return policy.
Finally they replaced the mousepad and mother board.
Lastly we sent it in to get repaired through dells 3rd party company.
They replaced the hard drive and the operating system.
DELL SELLS CRAP COMPUTERS AND THEY KNOW THEY ARE CRAP!!!
800 DOLLARS IN THE TRASH!!
For these problems I have contacted Dell so many times (more than 6 times) spending hours chatting online and talking on the phone, reinstalling drivers, redoing my windows (factory reset), them sending a technician to replace the mainboard, me sending the computer to their facility (for a week) to replace the touchpad.
Now they are sending a technician to replace some hardware.
I have always had my eye on new XPS 12 and also looking at XPS 13 as a more financially wise decision, but after a visit to an Apple store and playing around with the new Macbook Air i decided to get one but did not want to pay the 1200 for a 13 inch one, found a good deal in Amazon... long story short, the deal did not go through due to seller having problems.
After a lot of thoughts I decided to to go with a Refurbished XPS 13.
body.... all this for 670 (including shipping) not to mention the 256 SSD!!
I am a mac lover that has been forced to switch to a PC due to new job- not wanting to run parallels for everything.
Yes, I disabled the feature to let the system automatically disable the wireless adapter for power savings however it still struggles to capture any internet connectivity from random networks.
Constantly getting the "no network access."
Boot up is closer to the standard 30 seconds to a minute, battery life is 3-4 hours best case.
It is also a brink, closer to 7 pounds with battery.
The notebook inside was untouched, brand new.
My son is off to his freshman year in college in Sept.
And long battery life, key for college kids on the go.
Purchased and external IOMEGA Super slim USB optical drive inexpensively, for when he really needs it--he can leave this in his room.
:)
Dell tech said send it to them to get the motherboard replaced.
It will take 10 business days to repair after they receive it (not counting 2 business days to receive the return box + shipping time to Dell + shipping back to me).
After turning it on and finding this out, I immediately contacted the seller, not Amazon, and have shipped the system back.
Software glitch caused 3hr.
Had to delete all software, & reinstall, guess what, no cd/dvd player.
This ultrabook has similar size, weight and appearance to a MacBook Air 13, running Windows 7 (upgradable to Windows 8).
The computer runs smoothly and fast.
Nowhere in the descriptions or on their site did I find out that this computer has an internal battery that is not user replaceable.
bought it for someone else for christmas and they loved it.
The Dell was advertised to have a 500gb HD but only had a 140gb.
Had to contact the seller to get what was advertised, and was sent one with 3 partitions and the wrong Microsoft office loaded.
This particular laptop arrived quick and unopened as was reported by other reviews.
Once the setting was changed the wireless has never dropped out.
I have owned many Dells desk tops and have been supplied Dell lap tops by my work, and when my eight year old Dell desk top started slowing down, I decided to order another Dell.
I gave up and just ordered an hp from Best Buy last night after receiving my third broken Dell.
These two things everyone wants their computer not to be.
Also ideal for internet research and day-to-day communication.
Windows 7 takes some getting used to after using XP but the computer works well.
They took the time out of their weekend to ship this product on a Saturday.
I am buying a 2nd pc, the exact model, from this seller immediately!
Have had this computer for a month and have no problem up to now.
Piece of cramp,  never worked our of the box, many hours on the phone with Dell reps, finally had to send to Dell who replaced the mother board,
He does virtual games on it like building houses etc.
Sin embargo, la estoy usando sin problemas.
It arrived as at when due.
The other factors are ok from now.
3 months after purchasing this the computer had a system crash and already needs service.
Had to write and congratulate the team at Amazon for shipping my order so quickly and without damage.
Wireless Adapter says "n" but it is b/g/n (just desc on label missing)Cons: Weight is around 9.5 pounds.
Used for short periods each day for homework.
Motherboard beyond financially reasonable repair after having this computer only 6 months.
Lesson learned.
Gave to my daughter,,she can play with it... for Skype talk with friends and light work online ... it pass.
Well built systems, both have performed without issues and have met all expectations.
We bought two of these computers for our grown daughters and their families.
One daughter is in the process of moving and I have no report from her, but the other loves the computer.
Now we can share photos.
Dell Inspiron i15N-2728BK 15.6-Inch Laptop (Black)Although Microsoft lost a foothold in the world of computers when they faded out XP ,This Dell is a very good laptop .
So, I will be returning this laptop as soon as I can contact Amazon for return info.
He is happy with his Christmas present and uses it daily both for school and personal enjoyment.
Very nice computer for a student.
After 10 days of use(12/7/12)Not sure if i got the defective one but i have returned the laptop back.
It comes with all the features mentioned in the page, 6 GB RAM, 500 GB hard drive (1 GB = 1000 MB), etc ...
Some icons for folders, and files landed on the Desktop.
I decided to keep on using my trusted three years oldTOSHIBA SATELLITE L550- ST5701.
I am a certified Dell technician, I am also a computer technician, I got this laptop for a friend who wanted something based on his desires, I got him this machine, Every other day or so or when we talk, he talk about how beautiful and awesome this machine performs.
Everything he wants to do, he can on this machine.
After a problem with receiving a damaged unit due to poor handling, Amazon scheduled pickup, shipped a new unit and followed up quickly.
Bought this for convenience around the house and for some business use.
With help from a friend of mine, who is a programmer and system analyst, 6 very nice Dell employees from India and 7 hours of my Saturday, this computer still will not load web pages more than 80% percent of the time.
However, the screen disappears randomly.
The laptop was correctly protected in a laptop shipping box and the charger was included in a side section.
The battery holds power and seems to last as long as the advertised duration on a new laptop.
I put the new HDD into an external carrier and downloaded the Seagate DiskWizard from Seagate to clone the original HDD to the new HDD with no problems and replaced the old HDD with the new HDD.
The system is now  smokin fast for the i3 processor.
The Bluetooth and the built in WiFi help to stay connected round the clock.
Windows 7 Home Premium operating system is part of the deal, so there is no need to use pirated versions and suffer data loss.
Took about 2 hours to get through set up, back up and clear out bloat, then install anti-virus and programs used on the laptop being replaced.
She keeps it in the kitchen for information on how to perpare various dishes.
This computer has done everything we need.... a happy wife is a happy home.
Bought this laptop for my wife for her college use.
Excelente diseo, sonido espectacular, pantalla nitida, 100% complacido con el equipo, el problema con el wireless se corrige actualizando la bios y cuando activas la bios se activa un pequeo disco ssd de 32Gb!
The only shortcoming is the supporting area of left hand is a little "overheat".
Two major and two minor disappointments:- the machine has only 2 USB ports (one 2.0 and one 3.0).
This is not the case; while actually there would have been some space: the F6 and F7 keys do not have Fn functions assigned to them.
Got this computer on one day and it died, all of a sudden, the next day.
The laptop arrived in perfect condition.
After weighing all this data, I made the move and laid down the 2,000 dollars on what I hoped would be a great desktop replacement and an awesome gaming machine.
So now I sit for a month without any computer while I have to send my new computer(at my expense) back to MSI for repair.
In the first six months I had it one of the hard drives failed and it took them 2-3 weeks to have a new one sent to me.
The speed at which this computer responds with an SSD HDD ( http://www.
I just received the Package and when i unbox the laptop i realized that they didnt include the Windows 7 Product Key.
Hence cause On purchase you are post to receive a Windows 7 Home Premium.
Toshiba Satellite supposed to come with a mirror image of the operating system.
Then, they refunded $279.20 out of the $370 price because of the A to Z guarantee.
The computer helps her very much.
Bought this for my son (in high school).
After cleaning up the junk software it is pretty nice except for the touchpad which is in a location where we constantly nudge it with our hands while typing.
This product was ordered to replace an older Lenovo.
I got with Tech Support on the phone and after several attempts to make it work, they told me to send it to their repair facility (I had to pay for the shipping costs!!!).
On my third attempt, the tech support guy - noticing it was attempt #3 - created a ticket for customer service.
A lady called me after a week and she received it somewhere in North Carolina.
I hold the body of the laptop together with duct tape.
I have since bought another Lenovo with win 8 and am going to backdate it to win 7, for another friend.
He loves it and he is able to do his gaming on it as well as everything else.
Laptop then failed completely at only two and a half months old.
Realized the screw on the left side mounting had fallen out of the base.
A couple months later the right side did the same thing.
I searched many site to get a deal with the value of money.
Finally found this laptop lenevo G570.
Update 1/18/2013After I called Customer care and escalated to the manager, the manager took it seriously and arranged for a free repair of the hinge.
The screws in the back hinges started falling apart right away.
It has been returned to Lenovo once, refurbished by Staples 9 months after purchase.
Computer is falling apart, first screws fall out, next hinges break.
Lenovo has a serious problem with the hinges on these laptops breaking because the screws fall out of the bottom.
They will charge you to fix it and you must pay for shipping, then you will wait at least 30 days for parts from china!
Boots very quickly, even after three months of use.
The final nail in the coffin was when it stopped accepting a charge.
After setting up Windows and removing some bloatware, Windows Update started giving errors.
The computer failed after one month of use.
Send an email to Amazon asking about the warranty, but received no reply.
Crashed during first week.
Had to send to Samsung for repair.
The service took about two weeks.
Samsung must have it in the system that even though I uninstalled it is still on computer (hidden, I guess)
You can pinch to zoom, two fingers lets you scroll up and down, and three fingers lets you navigate forward and backward.
I have also on occasion heard when opening a file or a link that plays audio the speakers will make small pop before playing.
Will help her in school for her nursing degree.
I bought this item recently and am wondering why , when i open up experience index, my cpu is reading at 2.5 ghzProcessor Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-3210M CPU @ 2.50GHz 7.1Memory (RAM) 6.00 GB 7.5Graphics Intel(R) HD Graphics 4000 5.1Gaming graphics 1696 MB Total available graphics memory 6.5Primary hard disk 618GB Free (675GB Total) 5.9Determined by lowest subscore 5.1somebody help!
:)
After 1 week, the laptop started experiencing chronic blue-screen crashes.
After 2 weeks and considerable personal expense in shipping the laptop to the repair facility, the laptop had not even been looked at, let alone fixed.
but the adapter broke, after 5 weeks.
(looks to the untrained eye that bad soldering was the problem.)
Purchased for a fourteen year old girl for her birthday.
Created backup of fully loaded system prior to deployment (her birthday).
I currently use this primarily for graduate school research and assignments, but in testing its ability this computer can play intense video games for several hours at a time.
Among a lenevo ideapad, I used before I bought this one and another lenovo thinkpad and a sony vaio my roommates have (I know lot of devices), this one is the newest and is the first to lose signal when the speeds are low in the dorms.
Performance was fast and boot times where about 15 seconds, however bloatware seemed unnecessary, except for on board ssd management software.
After backing up the drive, I removed the windows 7 and installed windows 8.
Performance was ok, however when trying to boot, would have to wait 15 seconds turn it on, then back off then on again to get the bios to boot through.
Con:Drive that comes with the laptop is  HITACHI Sata 3.0GB/s 5400RPM not 7200RPM as advertised.
I had to return this unit within a day due to a faulty keyboard.
Asked for their help couple days late and they have ignored me just like Samsung.
After 3 months the keyboard started to show signs of cosmetic wear, which is unacceptable.
A couple of months later the aluminum chassis started to appear damaged and dented, following regular everyday use, because it is so thin and vulnerable.
For those who mean to keep it at home in a case and use it to write emails during the weekend maybe fine.
After using for only two months the case broke and the screen was falling out.
computer arrived on time and as described !
Finally in early September it crashed.
After spending an hour on the phone with a Samsung technician from India, he finally said I should send it to their repair service in Texas, and they sent me a lable to do that.
I received it back about two weeks later and as soon as I started to put in a program it crashed again.
They received it 5 days ago and I called them today to find out the status.
They told me the mother board was bad and they were back ordered.
I once again asked for a replacement and after being shuffled from one to another was told they would send my request for review which would take 3 to 5 days.
And of course - once it fell - the 500 GB HD got damaged.
I had to take it to a local repair center and pay to install a new hard drive.
Great computer for a student or moderate user.
Bought this for a student friend living in Costa Rica.
The shipping was prompt and was packaged nice and secure.
Good software layout during startup.
!I had the R620 samsung it was nice when i worked, however after upgrading to this series 5, I realized what ive been missing out on.
She took it on a trip recently and said it worked "awesome" for the music and games she put on it.
She also listens to it read books and was thrilled that it had a number pad built in which is getting harder to find.
After to hours with samsung tech.
Use everyday for business and 12+ hours a day.
Havent had an issue with it yet (bought it about 9 mos ago).
We purchased this laptop for our company owner for when he travels.
Our owner has used it now for a month with no complaints.
I got 4 problems:1) I got the NP900X3C 2 weeks ago and the keyboard failed in one key but fortunatly I got the laptop replaced with the new one in the shop.
Samsung is giving apple a run for their money!
for a brand new laptop that cost 1250 and coming from a company with Samsungs rep, i find this to be unacceptable.
the power plug jack end of the ac adapter is too narrow and fragile looking.
now, i can leave my ac adapter at home when i go to the coffee shops.
however samsung or elan please get your act together and improveyour touchpad driver soon.
Additional features of the Samsung 15" Series 9 PC include Bluetooth 4.0, 1.3MP HD webcam with built-in microphone, a 4-in-1 memory card reader, 2 x USB 3.0 ports, 1 x USB 2.0 port, 1 x headphone jack, 1 x microphone jack, 1 x RJ-45 Ethernet port, 1 x micro HDMI port, 1 x mini VGA port and 8-cell lithium-polymer battery with up 9 to 10 hours of battery life.
Of note - it does come with a very crappy 128GB SSD in the computer (and only ~60GB free when you turn it on), so you may want to research replacement SSD drives which are bigger and faster.
However, I cannot seem to make those nano usb receivers to work on the left usb port (3.0 port).
The trackpad drivers that Samsung supplies irrate the world because every time the computer is launched, it requests admin access again and again.
Cons:Speakers- They are small and can be hard to hear on certain occasions.
Quality Control- My first laptop came with a loose touchpad, Amazon quickly replaced it within 3 days(Amazon rocks!)
We have purchased a number of Samsung Series 9s to use within our network.
We (and our patrons) seem to love them!
This is an AMAZING laptop (best on the market IMO)!
Hoping to order it soon.
Amazon sent me to the latest model NP900X4C-A02US (with A C)While Samsung has NP900X4B-A02US (with A B).
Unit came in with illegal software installed.
Now instead of having a desktop at work and a notebook for his trip, use this laptop.
I was planning on buying a MacBook Air but when I went to the shop I found this Samsung laptop that had just landed in AU.
Looked great and the shop keeper raved on about it, so I decided to buy it.
Googled the issue after mucking around for two weeks on this and then found that others were having the same issue too and the only way to resolve it is by connecting up an external WiFi dongle.
I called up the shop from where I bought the Laptop and they said that they have had several other complaints about the same issue.. apparently it has to do with the casing.
Decided to get an Ultrabook class PC but wanted a 15 Inch Display so that narrowed down the field to only a couple of options.
Shortly after we had this unit the fan started clicking and began to fail.
They said they could not and would need to send my 1.5 day old notebook in for service as the only option.
You get a 128 GB SSD included, but by the time Samsung has put the O/S, their various bloatware, recovery partitions, and everything else they include - you get 50GB free.
Until Samsung modifies their O/S Media policy, I will not be purchasing another.
Best Uses:Business/Personal/College Use, Web Browsing, Word Processing, Video, & GraphicsBottom Line:Outstanding Ultrabook laptop computer.
:-)
Battery life at roughly 8-9 is awesome The power brick is supper small and works on airplane AC plugs Mouse track pad is great, a little to get use to but the 2 finger and other swipes are super efficient.
Web cam is clear and good on skype and gchat SD Card read is good location and has built-in door that stays closed when not forced up by a SD card placed in it.
I bought a Microsoft Office Home & Student 2010 Key Card - 1PC/1User for this, instal super easy.
The Xenbook (not prime) had issues with the keyboard as written in many reviews.
FIVE bars steady !
Then the saga began with customer support : ininstall, reinstall, ...... they clearly handle multiple customers at the same time.
I asked him that question during the chat 3 times.
By the way, the issue occurs even when power is plugged in.
So decided to order the Dell Inspiron 14Z.
com and listening to virgin radio, I knew it was the speakers!
Much like a tablet or iPad, this unit boots up immediately so the is no delay in getting this unti from sleep mode to up in running.
This computer is good major problem is the way the power cord is made it will break I noticed it started to wear out after 3 months the way it sits in the plug who designed this they would not replace i t.  After speaking to there customer service which has to be the worse only after I threaten to sue them in small claims court this they mail me a new cord for free
Perfect for traveling.
MY main requirements were for Ivy Bridge CPU ,  integrated Intel graphics (EZ driver integration on Ubuntu), 8GB RAM, SSD as large as possible, best available graphics resolution,  no DVD drive ( N/A these days ).
The XPS took forever to boot or even wake up from hibernation whereas the Series 9 resumes in about 4 seconds.
The issue: Samsung fastboot takes over the W7 settings, turns OFF the wireless adapter, and it cannot be turned ON either from FnF12 (pressing key gives a wireless & bluetooth image, both greyed out and un-switchable), or from the "Advanced Power Settings" when going the battery icon route.
Because that BTW reverts to "Samsung Eco Mode" even when switched to another power setting followed by immediate reboot (yes, tried that too).
The only way to turn on the wireless adapter is to go to "Samsung Fastboot" and turn it on under Advanced Settings.
TL;DR: Samsung software keeps wireless adapter turned off, and a vicious cycle makes the WiFi unusable..... oh, and in case you are wondering, I am writing this review connected to a CAT5 cable.
Purchased this laptop and returned after two days.
Basically for my wife laptop replacement, her old laptop is dying.
Intel c3 4gb Memory, 500Gb hardrive, Windows 8 pre installed and Office 10.
Bought for my wife for xmas, she had it for 2 weeks, had a critical error on the software, sent it back to samsung, they wanted to charge us $48.
My Dell Mini took a dive after only two years right after a vacation to Germany.
Luckily after two weeks work, my IT guy was able to get my "User" folder off the old computer.
In comes the Samsung Series 3 (I am typing on now).
Our Son needed a new laptop for college and this one fit the bill.
Had never owned a samsung laptop beofre but due to quality of their over products decided to go for it.
Bought at Amazon special price of $499 for wife.
She is very happy with laptop used for business/personal use.
Be prepared to re purchase trusty programs that used to work.
Anyone know the specifics on memory expansion?Thanks!Paul
But it does get hot after an hour of use(maybe mine only?)
He got it up an running right away.
I bought this laptop for my wife to use for her school work.
However, it arrived with a broken track pad.
I chose to return it to Amazon for a new working machine than try and deal with the repairs.
Fast and connect well to the monitor.
Did not realize that this does not contain a cd drive... had to return... expensive lesson.
20% restock fee to keep one day,
Stress cracks appeared at hinges after 3 weeks of use.
Sent to 3rd party for repairs, repair company then voided warranty due to "Damage".
They then offered to repair $7 cover for a $50 "Evaluation Fee" and then whatever costs for the actual repair.
Laptop sent back from repair facility with hinge cover split open with screwdriver from Technician.
I have had IBM (Lenovo)and Dell laptops in the past.
They had no issues making repairs, IBM even sends a prepaid Box for shipping.
the Samsung barely had .49 download and only 1.4 up.... the dinosaur (old Dell) was significantly higher.
Key board over sensitive and type wrong lettersLoss of paint on key board shortly after useNo reguar micophone connectPower cord broken after a few months
While comparing Samsung Series 9 NP900X4C-A01US model and same spec Korean model (NT900X4C-A58), I found out NP900X4C-A01US has 340 nit brightness, while same spec Korean model has 400 nit brightness.
The drive is super fast but small, especially after loading Office.
Unfortunately product arrived defective with several keys on the keyboard not working.
Great for College Students!!!
Ive tried various settings reccomended on forums from users facing the same problem.
Unfortunately the display died on me about three weeks ago and it took one week to send it back to samsung support.
It has been 5 days since they received it and they claim it may take up to 14 business days which means three real weeks to get it back.
(Customer service agent Jason).
The Cons of this machine:-Track Pad is at times tricky, the problem can be solved by changing the settings of the track pad in Control panel.-Ultra Books do not have CD/DVD/BluRay drives.-Battery is not changeable.-128GB mSata drive leaves U with just 35-40Gb of free space.-The Media Card sticks out instead of being locked and secured into the machine.-Should have come with a Microsoft signature edition of Windows 7 Home premium.-Backlit Keyboard sensor can sometimes annoy when the screen dims and brightens when your hand passes or rests on that area.-Samsung does not offer extended warranty package option.-The screen should have been 1080HD.
The MicroPort for Ethernet comes with the machine.-Expensive @ >1150US$.
Windows 7 Home Premium Signature Edition on Vizio.
Update:2 months after using this machine and after upgrade to Windows 8 have noticed that Samsung introduced support for Windows 8 OS for this PC Ultrabook through a program called SW UPDATE.
The SW update replaces the old software suite that came with the machine and also adds a cool "start" button to the Windows 8 interface!
As well as a system recovery disk for the operating system.
When I knew I would be returning to school full-time, I essentially knew I wanted a basic laptop that would get me through three years of writing basic Word documents and looking up info online.
During this process (2-3 days of installation and reading the internet), I realized that this laptop cannot fresh install Windows 7 from the bootable USB Stick.
The Windows 7 must be installed from USB DVD Drive.
Now with SSD installed, everything looks alright.
I bought this ultrabook after spending days and nights searching for the best ultrabook online.
The computer came in with bad USB ports.
The support was painless, they sent me a UPS label to send in the computer to a Texas repair center, they took 7-8 business days to turn the repaired computer around, only it came with scratches!!
Then the backlight stopped working suddenly which makes it useless of course.
everything was good except for the battery life - which lasted for 2 to 3 hours "browsing" the internet.
(TOTALLY UNNECESSARY).
However after 6 months of light use this laptop died on me!
Which turns out is a lie.
very powerful and downloaded MS Office (no CD drive).
Most extreme, Samsung Latvia has explained that global warranty applies only to computers purchased in Latvia...
Luckily I am traveling back to the U. S.(NY) and I am hopping to find a Samsung branch there who could take care of it.
This computer with time got slow, and finally when completed 1 year it broke.
Started with a different Samsung that came installed with Windows 8.
The computer arrived today in one piece.
Had to send one in twice.
Painless and FREE!Samsung customer service is the polar opposite.
Very fast operation.
So I am running 8gb ram (cost about 30$ for the samsung brand stick).
We have purchased 11 of these over the last year, all running Windows 7.
An antivirus, MS Office, a lot of games, an OSX dock clone, Samsung "smart" battery manager etc.
But the problem you will realize after reinstalling windows is that, Samsung does not send any CD for installing drivers.
Their website shows NP700Z5C-S04US on products list but NP700Z5C-S03US (this laptop) is not listed.
(Props to PC Mover for their excellent Live Chat assistance.)
I have written, spoken by phone to Mexico, chatted in both languages, etc.
I am five days ago trying to find out the following:When two HD Graphics have the notebook, the question is simple:As it is made to use in fixed way the Nvidia GT 650M?Is there anyone who has this model and can make it?Other models have in the BIOS a configuration (fix or dinamyc) but my HP does not have him.
In the Device manager, represent both installed HD graphics correctly.
Thanks Jose-----And they follow lies.
Only he has an entrance of headphones (not two), lies and lies and nobody becomes responsible.
Money nobody gives you back him
After two months started to develop a start up error.
After three hours on the phone and two different techs I was than told I would have to pay $24.95 to ship my less than three month old computer to their repair center.
This particular Toshiba (Toshiba Satellite S855-S5165 Laptop) was a cheap product!
after a year of heavy use the keyboard started to malfunction.
The software from Toshiba is worthless and does not want to go away.
The computer has met our needs, for daily home activities such as e-mail, MS office tasks, I have also used it to process pictures and that has worked well.
However the real test comes with time, how will it hold up?
The pre-installed virus protection on the computer will not completely uninstall.
BATTERY LASTS ALMOST 4 HOURSTHIS TEAM WAS SENT TO COLOMBIA SOUTH AMERICA BECAUSE IS TOSHIBA INTERNATIONAL WARRANTY
Minor complaints: lots of crapware pre-installed, recovery disks span five (!!!)
dvds, tiny arrow and function keys, Office starter (this means ads and excel/word only).
I initially reported "the wired and wireless internet connection will stop if the user walks away from this laptop.
"After a year of use as of Dec 2013, I just found out that was caused by my set up of power use for the battery.
I changed the power plan for the battery to be running all the time and the laptop kept the wireless connection active.
Please be advised the antivirus must be stopped when Combofix is run.
When running ComboFix once a week to remove the hidden malwares, I disable the antivirus Comodo.
The program installed but every time it tried to run the computer crashed to the bluescreen.
I returned the laptop to Amazon and requested a replacement which was handled very smoothly, The replacement laptop came and after installing dropbox, I got the same result.
(Nvidia).
Out of the box, this was the easiest laptop to set up and get started.
DC Power port is actually broken.
I have to force to fight them ,,just leave that feedback  maybe they will learn that way
Bought this for my daughter to use for her school work and she loves it very much.
Now that they are combining great components, i decided to give them another try.
WITHIN 10 DAYS THE KEYBOARD KEYS STARTING LIFTING.
I FOLLOWED PROTOCOL TO INITIATE AN EXCHANGE OR RETURN.
BUY FROM AMAZON, BUT NEVER FROM DAVE ELECTRONICS.
Update do not buy Toshiba Their warranty service is a joke I have had to deal with HP, Dell and Samsung for in warranty issues but Toshiba has been the most difficult, the struggle to get my dead Toshiba fixed started with Toshiba tech insisting I purchase a new A/C adapter which was not covered under warranty and of course did not solve the problem, now after three more calls a very rude person told me that I was out of luck with buying the second A/C adapter that they where so quick to sell me, also I would have to pay to send my six month old computer to the service center, location unknown because I needed to call back in 24-48 hours their computers where down, guess they us Toshiba computers to
For the next three nights I installed all my programs on it, and by the time I got to Virginia, it was ready to go.
I bought this laptop for my little brother who is pursuing a career in video game design and 3D modelling.
After one and a half year, this laptop stop working.
Now I am especially happy that I bought from Amazon and not some seller who was going to be a hassle with returns.
Amazon was nice with the return over the telephone.
They refunded me the $41 UPS return shipping cost without even asking for a receipt.
1 pixel was dead and another 2 went off a couples of days after using it.
The Toshiba arrived quickly and died quickly.
Despite very light usage, the computer keyboard failed within 4 four months of the purchase.
Among the alpha keys only four or five keys works.
I tried to fix the problem by uninstalling the keyboard driver and also  by restoring the system, but nothing helped.
Had to send it back.
The harddrive lasted exactly 1 week after the return expiration window closed which was ONLY 1 MONTH after purchase anyway.
Got it for VP who travels a lot and so far not downside they keyboard lights up and he loves that for the night flights
Had to send back to site I purchased it from.
The SSD failed within two days of arrival at my house.
Love the battery life and ease set up and use.
Purchased from Amazon July 2012.
3 whole weeks of computer bliss before the first pixel went.
It took 3 weeks to be returned.
Lessons learned:  only buy computers from Amazon; never buy Toshiba.
Toshiba computer out of warranty when problem developed with their software.
Had to pay $75 for tech support, which eventually caused the whole unit to crash!
BEFORE BUYING ONE JUST ASK SOMEONE THAT KNOWS COMPUTERS.
Local big box retailer offered one machine with W7 at $1600.00 US dollars!This baby flies and is big yet light!
:-)
This laptop is the real deal and,for under a $1000 will keep you happy for years.
Having the same computer as my husband means we can assist each other while getting used to new ways of working.
We did hire a local guy to transfer our photos/files/bookmarks, etc.
we just did not want to mess the transfer up, senior citizen anxiety, no teenagers in the house.
The laptop was defective and was returned to the seller.
Have not had a chance to try out the Blu-Ray function yet.
The second thing; it does not recognize the wireless network from the beginning but later after attempts, it does.
He was very happy to have a 8 Gb, 1 TB 17" laptop.
But after a few months it died.
HP customer service did take it for repair free of charge (because it was under warranty).
This notebook was purchased in a hurry when my last one died suddenly.
After a few days of testing the components I wiped off Windows and installed Linux and have been quite happy with ever since.
I currently had a Windows7 HP desktop for my small business and needed to find a Windows7 laptop to avoid having to purchase another photo printer and other external equipment and software.
I primarily have loaded Sight Reading, Ear Training and Theory programs for my students to use in the Computer Lab before and/or after their private lessons.
The new computer is connected to a Midi keyboard.
she babbled on and on and on meaningless and endless with no outcome.
He had a friend that had one, and decided he would like one for himself.
The laptop was securely packaged.
Good Price... arrived In New Origional packaging.
The laptop/notebook arrived in perfect condition.
My daughter purchased this computer.
She has only had the computer for about a month, but is very happy with her purchase thus far.
The mouse is hard to scroll, and hard to control.
Our son is  microsoft certified and he recommended this particular computer when we were looking to upgrade.
Will buy HP again and recommended to friends and family.
just bought this two days ago using my cell after my 6yo iBook went to laptop heaven.
a lot has changed in six years LOL.
(and i got it for $379 JUST TWO DAYS AGO!!!)
Recomiendo siempre entregar los productos con sus respectivas facturas
The space bar on the keyboard was damaged, so had to return it.
After several small fixes over the phone & attempting to upload new software I ended up sending it back for a new one.
I have had the new one for about a month & I am beginning to have some of the same problems as I had with the last one.
HP took care of the new drive after a lengthy call to India but that was not the last problem.
All kinds of ports (3 USB) and card reader.
:)
I tried to study everything I could about Windows 8 on line, asking computer techies, looking for software to work with in "8".
Maybe Windows 9 will get the PC word back on track.
Day two called my internet provider  and Netgear representative.
After two more hours on the phone with HP no internet.
:)
Love the red back lit keyboard.
First of all, the red print on the keys is very difficult to read when the backlight is off.
From whom I thought was a reputable manufacturer being that I have bought HP laptops in the past; however I ignored the warnings of my friends and family and some of the reviews and I went for this nicely built HP laptop.
The sad part is that the almost perfect experience only lasted six days after receiving the item as on the sixth day the laptop refused to power on!
Computer powers on and is ready to use in about 15 seconds .
I was scared to try an HP (I always get Sony laptops) however, I let my boyfriend convenience me to get the laptop.
a lot of money for a lap top that will soon be un usable.
HD videos look beautiful in 1080p and software is very simple and easy to install (include games which run beautifully).
Contacted HP and found the full HP warranty runs until August this year, have a number to call for an extended warranty, and feel confident in this laptop.
I bought it for a friend and she loves it!
This PC lasted us only three months before it started causing problems.
we had to send it back to HP to be replaced.
The left hinge broke and the touchscreen no longer responds.
My daughter loves the laptop.
Was effortless to order , shipped on time & arrived when promised .
Unit was shipped with care to prevent in - transit damage.
Unit performs as stated in specs , very nice craftsmanship & detail .
do not buy anything from FLOWER Electronics.. they sent me a defective unit and the DVD drive was broken and when I tried to load a DVD into the drive it would not open and I had to take it to a computer repair place to remove the DVD.
when I sent the unit back to the seller they charged me a restocking fee for a defective unit.
The temporary MS Office and Norton product take some patience to stay on the computer and both took a couple of times of activating before they actually stayed active.
The computer went back to HP for repair three times and then the company refused to provide a full refund.
I intend to mail it back after the holiday weekend.
He loved it... it is now one of his best gifts ever.
NOTHING... force a start to the drive... asks you to "INSERT A DISC IN DRIVE".
Never launches.
I contacted customer service and they apologized and sent the machine I ordered with the 6 Gig of Ram.
Despite daily use these 2.5 year old laptops are still running strong, with the original power cords and batteries (great battery life, too).
I had to upgrade Windows 7 Home Premium to Windows 7 Professional in order to get XP mode and Virtual PC so I could run my older software.
So be prepared to buy all new software or upgrade the operating system.
with 6g ram and intel i3 dual processor, this baby can handle a multitude of active tasks quickly without dropping internet connection, freezing internet pages or software (docs and excel) freezing - LOVE IT!
Meanwhile the seller refused to refund or replace the item.
They do not care about their customers.
First one (different model) lasted less than two years and then overheated and stoppedaltogether.
In the past when HP used Indian tech support, I got decent help.
I know HP is widely bought, but do not waste your money, and take a chance on having to go through the nightmare of spending weekssetting up your machine, printers, network, etc., and then have to get a new machine and start all over again.
Para mi trabajo como ingeniero civil es lo mejor que he tenido (y es mi tercera HP).
Instead you have to click alt f4 to shutdown  (I found that out by searching on the internet.
When the computer tried to install updates they would not install and I had to return the computer to "refresh" the computer to get it to boot up.
I now have learned how to use Windows 8 from an expert so the computer is fine now.
I have had problems in the past with first generation Microsoft products, and wanted to stay clear of Windows 8.
Will go back to Dell when this one goes to the junkyard.
Must pry the slot open.
Bought this computer after my son busted my other one on accident.
I ordered this laptop for my grandson who is a freshman in college as this is his pick, but I was disappointed with it as the first thing we had to do was purchase microsoft word program for him.
Had to send it back.
hp laptop was just the thing my mom needed while she is recuperating downstairs from a broken foot... product is awesome and delivered on time and in perfect condition
Can reproduce a video from a MKV File at 1080p smoothly via HDMI in a 42" LED TV!!
Cons: Medium Hard Drive and Glossy housing.
She just loves it and was the best one to order according to someone who should know Computers.
The buck stops with the case worker.
would like the microsoft software because the computer keeps asking for the code key.
my daughter is using this laptop - she lives in the mideast and seems pleased with this laptop -i have always been happy with HP and i have bought quite a few products over the years.
The documentation states it can be upgraded to 16Gb.
Also, HP has a nice PDF out which gives step-by-step instructions on how to upgrade the memory.
DO *NOT* FOLLOW THESE INSTRUCTIONS!!
It still works somewhat... well.., (after all the send backs} but it is now hot as hell on the underside because I finally decided to turn it on after several months of dust collecting.
However, HP could not solve the heating problem.
sys driver.
I bought this ultrabook in the US and brought to Brazil, the local HP does not support computers bought in the USA.
Until today I have a brand new computer stored in my closet.
However, on August 29, 2012 the motherboard on this computer died.
I decide to get it and called up HP to find out about this and any back to school promotions.
These options are not available with the HP Pavilion g7z-2100 Notebook PC* Radon HD 7730M graphics (dual graphics)* Second hard drive(so that you could add a SSD for Boot Drive)* Keyboard with backlight* Blu-ray writer & SuperMulti DVD burner* WINDOWS 7 ULTIMATE 64-BITWell to end this, I hope HP comes out with a Customize & Buy for this, I think it would sell very well, I have sent them emails to this effectPlease!!
I immediately called them and told them to cancel the order - I had the feeling this was a bate an switch scheme.
The supplier said that amazon had to cancel the order and amazon said they could not cancel the order since it was already shipped by their records, which was false.
Consequently, we are not ordering from amazon for awhile.
From the beginning the computer froze for a few seconds several times... and now the hard drive is dead.
We will send a return mailer.
Done), took over an hour.
then 7-9 days turn around.
There is an empty bay for an extra disk drive, but no bracket/wiring (they are available).
Purchased on a Sunday and it arrived on Tuesday, with $3.99 expedited Amazon Prime shipping.
When booting up, (which is very quick), an error appears saying I have to install ATK0100 driver.
Update: The ATK0100 driver is actually on the laptop.
Go to the start menu, programs, ASUS, edrivers and install the driver.
This will stop the errors at boot up.
Had to send this PC back twice, both for keyboard issues (not responding) after only 30 days old.
Sent to mfg and returned with no office starter that came with PC originally.
Called for assistance and was addressed as "Mr. Dan" which is my first name so you know where this is leading.
No heating whatsoever after working hours.
I had three individual chat sessions with ASUS customer care who were unable to resolve the issue.
The product only includes a laptop, power charger and a  Mini VGA to VGA adapter.
i used it spaingly after my purchase but not intensively until two months later when the problem occurred.
I am pasting some responses from their customer service to a frustrated customer who has spent 2 days installing sofware and migrating data to the new machine and missed several critical deadlines due to their apathy.
Can you try a system restore via the F9 key upon start-up.
Lets restore everything and let Windows install the drivers and updates again.
Give that a try first before returning the unit.
You can turn on the notebookenter the BIOS by pressing F2 when ASUS logo appears.
Switch to "Save & Exit" menu and select Restore Default.
Press F10 save and exit for a try.
Then please unplug the power adapter from the notebook, and use the notebook until the available battery life is under 95%.
Reconnect the power adapter to the notebook.
Then the battery will be charged to 100%Right now I am not even counting the 5 times customer care hung up and lengthy informational interview they will conduct before telling you that you need to send the machine back for inspection.
I have finally decided to return the product because I could no longer live with the torture.
Super performance (for a small laptop of course).
I received my unit at the hotel in Orlando and just started to use in the 1st moment I opened the package.
I boughtPatriot Memory Signature DDR3 8GB 1600MHz SODIMM (PC3 12800) PSD38G16002S) +OCZ 240GB Vertex 3 Harnessing SATA 6Gb/s 2.5" Low Profile 7mm form factor SSD with Max 550MB/s Read and Max 4KB Write 85K IOPS For Ultrabook - VTX3LP-25SAT3-240Gbut will do the upgrades when I arrive in Brazil, so I ll update this review.
One important tip, I cloned the HDD (500GB to the 240 SSD) with the Acronis True Image 2013 through USB (attached the ssd to an external USB 3.0 case), it worked, but MUST BE the Acronis 2013 version, the previous version DOES NOT WORK.
Other tip: the asus recovery discs worked for me in both DVD and Bluray using theSamsung SE-506AB/TSBD 6X USB2.0 External Slim Blu-ray Writer Drive (Black)that I also bought in this same order only for this notebook (I recorded and tested the DVDs and the Bluray) and let me say that doing the bkp in Bluray is muuuuch better (faster and use only 1 25Gb bluray).
The only draw back was on the Memory.
This thin fact form laptop is incredible, I buy this item along with Corsair Vengeance 8GB (1x8GB) DDR3 1600 MHz (PC3 12800) and Win7 upgradable to Win8.
Had to return it back.
Shortly after several of the keys on the keyboard would not work.
Over $1000.00 in gift cards.
I requested a refund after finding out there will be another 2 weeks delay.
I requested a refund in a different form and was told they can "try" but policy states gift cards can only be refunded in a form of a gift card.
And on top of this, Amazon is selling it more expensive than many other online stores, which are selling it at the real price of $1099.
After about three months this laptop will not power on at all.
Moved a screw from other side of keyboard to hole next to corner by power switch.
Put some strong tape over the corner.
How many other things are hidden from our eyes?
the audio has noise now and then !I contact the seller Adorama  and no matter how I claim that problem, Adorama refuse to return or exchange !
The set up was a breeze.
This computer has been nothing short of a nightmare to use... one problem after another... constant freezes, defective pointers, goes offline and in "airplane" mode without provocation; apps appear on screen in the middle of using Word.
The system is breaking down EVERY OTHER DAY literally.
He opened at my house and was working on it immediately.
I just bought this 3 months ago and have not even used it outside of the house, now i have a line across the front and i am pissed.
i opened the box, first time power on, went through the initial setup, i had to restart after downloading few updates, then all i see black screen, i stared at the screen for about half an hour, no change, then i tried restarting it, still nothing, i contacted the seller they were closed due to hurricane Sandy in new jersey area, after several weeks when things got back to normal i was able to return it right away and got my money back!
Runs great does everything she wants.
Purchased as a general purpose home computer for myself (53) and spouse.
I had this laptop for a week and then it suddenly quit connecting to the internet.
After one week, it started freezing and disabling the pointer!
The laptop was received in excellant condition and brand new working order.
Then it stopped working (would no longer power on).
Dealing with Toshiba customer service has been frustrating as many of the representatives hang up randomly and their English is very difficult to understand.
It will cost $25 to ship the laptop to their repair facility and I was warned that there is a chance my files will be wiped.
Contact the customer but never get the answer.
The laptop has problems after 3 months.
this one is the present to my wife on this Christmas, and after she felt this laptop is very good one to instead of her old ACER netbook.
Needed to get an external mouse as I struggled with the inbuilt cursor.
The weight is adequated to mi health
I bought this ultrabook for my daughter after graduation.
She heads to college soon and wanted something small and light on the big campus.
However, the computer never booted up properly, and thus I had to send it back for a refund
Purchased this computer for my son that is in his senior year of engineering and he really likes it.
Fast start up and long battery life between charges.
The USB ports are held to the case by a small screw that goes into a small plastic piece; they are not soldered into othe motherboard.
The backlight keyboard is a bonus and you can choose a setting so it monitors the ambient light and only turns on the backlights when it gets dark out.
battery life has been about 5 hours with constant internet use.
(More computer companies should have case color choices other than black)
Got a same laptop at local store with windows 8 for $100 cheaper.
Mine failed after 2 days and I had to send it back.
We spent a ton of time recovering our data twice  so we have decided to throw in the towel for the third and last time.
However, he uses it to play computer games such as Minecraft and Roblox quite regularly and it performs very well.
The graphics are clear and he has no issues chatting with his friends on Skype while also playing the games.
Paid $800 on Black Friday Deal.
The five star is based on the best configuration and quality for that money.
However, this actually becomes tolerable considering the issue of optical drive and mouse pad.
I bought this laptop for a friend who insisted on the Sony brand even though I told them they could save going with a different brand starting with letter L. The laptop is pretty nice, but have a plasticky body and flimsy lid that flexes.
exp using ultraedit on file >1Gb)Pros: running smoothly whatever the number of app I am running, stop and start almost instantaneously.
However, I have previously bought refurbished and "like new" products via Amazon with no problem.
After initial startup the unit began randomly recycling off and on.
Microsoft Surface, returned it.
Win 8 RT wont run m programs.
It crashes frequently even though it runs windows 7 the one Microsoft finally got right after 25 years.
All of a sudden, out of nothing, the Hard Disc Drives goes dead.
Never had a computer that dies 7 months after buying.
I order the laptop about 3 months ago.
and beautiful design for well under $1000.
We got this for our son in college.
Love the purchase.
It was also important to get a computer that booted up quickly.
- To use them on the way.
Silly behaviour with crazy rules in vizio.
2 years ago I got the similar problem with Samsung - they helped me the same time when I asked them.
The charger broke in a month.
My first attempt was a Toshiiba which had problems right out of the box (literally).
After researching for months.
Track pad works perfectly after upgrading the driver to 9.3.7.4 from Microsoft Windows Update under optional.== update:I found there is a magnet embedded in the top lid bezel.
When the lid is closed, the magnet serves as a "lock".
In the future we must be cautious about buying a product from Amazon that may not be an authorized seller by the manufacturer!
But unfortunately, Vizio refuses to honor the warranty because they claim the Amazon merchant I purchased it from is not an authorized dealer.
I bought a vizio tv back in December and when i found out they made computer.
I returned it for a refund but had to pay for shipping, so I lost $26 on the deal and had to order a different laptop.
:(
The cost of repair for this $264(Parts - $130, Labor - $69,Fedex Shipping - $65).
When getting a laptop in the $600 price range, there will be some sacrifices.
It is thin and light (just as the name implies).
It comes loaded with Windows 7 Premium Signature instead of Windows 8 (that is hard to find as of April 2013)Cons:It has no optical drive, ethernet port, or sd card reader.
Doe not have a Home, End, Page Up and Page Down key.
Power Saver plan saves battery power until the public library closes giving me 7 hrs 30 mins of productivity on laptop.
Touchpad should be centerally located in the left corner of laptop.
Installed a wireless mouse... problem solved.
We will be ordering another one,
I purchased this laptop months ago and my daughter who is in her second year of college still likes it.
I searched for msny hours until I decided on this laptop.
No regrets months later.
I have a three years old Toshiba Satellite L505.
I called their customer support and a kind representative told me I had a virus and it was manipulating my computer (he looked like he knew what he was talking about - he had no doubt so I trusted him).
I paid the $ 50 and bought external harddrive, copied everything to it and called their customer support again.
They said they will not be returning my money as their service is just diagnostic!
sent this l855 laptop to my mother 75 years old 1100 mi away she used it for 2days and the mouse pad locked up.
did the fn-f9 still no luck , try to  steer a 75 year old through installing new drivers , it was a early Christmas present but looks bad right now .
she dont know how to send it back nor will she try thanks toshiba
From day 1 it crashed(Blue Screen) regularly.
I returned it for service and when I got it back the repair ticket said computer would not boot up-replaced hard drive.
the computer shuts down and a blue screen comes up while using internet explorer.
I purchased this laptop after researching for over a month.
Replaced Norton Security w/AVG anti-virus.
Norton was a pain to uninstall but after a couple tries was able to do so.
The laptop performs flawlessly using MS office (word, excel, picture manager).
"Open box" computer has only 30-day warranty instead of 1-year manufacturer warranty.
In general, a new computer will not go wrong during one-year period.
Only complaint is that the wired network connector is on right side of case and network cable can interfere with right handers using mouse.
The installed rams consists of one 4GB PC3-12800 Samsung M471B5273DH0-CK0 and one 2GB PC3-12800 Kingston TSB1600D3S1ELD/2GE which which runs at different speeds and has to be changed to avoid bottle necks.
There is no option for international owners to buy additional international warranty and make payment with Non-US issued credit cards.
As well as for doing all the common stuff that one does with a PC (Office, internet, skype, etc).
They sent a box for me to return the computer, fixed it (and the issue was software) and promptly returned it.
com/Toshiba-Satellite-S855D-S5148-15-6-Inch-Aluminum/dp/B00B3PFPOC/ref=sr_1_3?s=electronics&ie;=UTF8&qid;=1363289726&sr;=1-3&keywords;=toshiba+satellite+laptopthis is nearly the same laptop now, but it has more memory 8gb vs 6gb, and a larger HDD 1tb vs 750gb.
Get the anti virus also.
Tiene 8 ncleos, es realmente rpida, instal Visual Studio 2010 y 2008 en menos de 15 minutos (entre los dos), SQL Server 2008 Developer en 5 minutos y no digamos para juegos.
It works very well with other Sony products (PSP, PS3, 40" LED HDTV, Sony TV box, and Sony Tablet).
A tech came out to my home and replaced the HDD and included a 6 DVD set of Windows 7 install disks.
The service call was under warranty, so free and the tech did a fantastic job (promptly arrived on time, replaced the HDD, and did a great job installing the OS).
Also happy with the built in web cam quality.
windows 2008 server boots in 8 seconds with sql server 2008.
One problem I faced was that when I tried install Windows 7 thru DVD drive, installation was asking for driver and unable to continue the installation.
This may be the reason someone return this machine, but brought this machine from amazon warehouse.
The guarantee is not offered outside the USA although exists in Brazil Sony and sell the same product.
International branded goods, must have international warranty ...
later.
The mouse pad responds very well but the buttons seem to respond better when pressed closer to the division between them.
Monitor power 40W is included in Desktop numbers.
I tested power consumption with "Kill a watt" meter available on Amazon here:  http://www.
com/P3-International-P4400-Electricity-Monitor/dp/B00009MDBUI plan to check later electrosmog a few mm above keyboard, with Magnetic Field, Electric Field meters.
Laptop  HP Pavilion dv2000,  Windows XP Home.
Power Consumption - BOOTA = 22-50WB = 29-39WC = 125-160WPower Consumption - IDLEA = 12WB = 28WC = 115WPower Consumption - SIMULATION  (5sec long simulation)A = 24WB = 35WC = 150WAudible Noise - IDLE (scale 0 = no noise, 10 = loudest)A = 3  (laptop is even quieter when raised above table surface)B = 4-6C = 10
ASUS G75VW 3d 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black)The ASUS G75VW 3D 17.3-Inch Laptop has a storage capacity of 1.5 TB hard drive and 12 GB as RAM memory.
Four tries later and I have finally found one.
I first started with a refurbished HP which had problems with the screen- sent it in for repairs, got it back- an issue a week later so I returned it to the amazon seller for a full refund.
Second try was a new Lenovo with same specs.
(Considering the HP was fine).
The battery life is great (6+ hrs), no heat, fast, nice feeling keyboard, nice trackpad...
Sent this garbage back to hp they replaced the hard drive sent it in for overheating.
I purchased this notebook through Newegg to replace a 4 year old HP with a dying videocard.
Countless hours on the phone with HP techs, hired my computer network guy to come in and try to deal with it(unsuccessfully), 3 cross country shipping trips for it to be repaired and replaced.
4 months later I am still waiting for the replacement to arrive.
In addition to the cost of the notebook, I am out $120 from my own pocket for repairs and shipping in dealing with what can only be described as a lemon that should never have left the factory.
In Neweggs defense they did not have to do anything since it was out of the 30 day warranty time, although during that time I spent a lot of time on the phone with HP trying to fix the problem.
Other HP laptops in the home operating with the same operating system did not have the problem.
HP has lost a loyal customer in excess of 15 years.
Also got the SquareTrade 3 yr warranty for security.
Computer keeps crashing, runs very slow, takes forever to download a page and get on the interent.
In late December, the hard drive failed.
I sent the laptop to HP for repair, and got it back in mid January.
I have a dual operating system installed now (both Windows and Ubuntu) and both work fine with no problems.
Easy to transfer files/software from old computer.
I called the customer service three times and they kept telling me their supervisor is going to call me back, but I never received the call.
I am in graduate school, I already spent 50 bucks for restoring the data, which are very important for me and I already spent six days waiting for their responses.
The unit looked to be the perfect unit for me as I was expecting to retire soon and travel accross the USA in an Rv.
Operating system - Windows 7.
The various programs on the laptop and internet freezes up for no reason.
My new laptop arrived today via UPS.
Excellent team and very versatile in giving answers to the thousand and one demands of daily work in the office ..
$580.
They didnt even tested the basic things for the laptop.
It has received two hard drives and countless trips back to the retailer and other shops for updated, OS reloads, etc.
Excellent to travel ,++++  AMAZON IS GREAT for finding the best prices and best products and reviews help .
I called support and they were unable to resolve the issue even after downloading the new WLAN driviers.
When the notebook boots up for the very first time, the keyboard back lighting is turned on.
This program hides the Windows 8 tile start screen, brings back the normal windows screen each time the machine boots, and generally makes Windows 8 behave similar to Windows 7.
Laptop is great but what was advertised as new is not.. the trial software was expired in someone elses name
Windows 8 comes with Defender, so the Kapersky trial just got in the way.
Updated the driver and went through level 1,2 and 3 Sony support.
This laptop is a GREAT purches for people who want to do some office and light to mid range gameing.
It is her main computer at home now and she loves it.
La capacidad de memoria, disco y video son excelentes para trabajar.
I bought two of these laptops which was over $1,000 with 1 day shipping.
When the laptop arrived I sat in the living room waiting for a knock.
After about a month, it caught a nasty virus.
Then, one of the kids spilled "Coke" on the keyboard.
Got this for my mother who just went back to school.
She loves this laptop.
It arrived quickly and packed safely.
Unless you have to deal with ASUS customer service (whose negative reputation you can read about elsewhere) you should be fine - UNLESS YOU EVER WANT TO USE THE WIRED 802 PLUG.
For reasons beyond belief, the plug retainer clip they selected on this model just does not work and you WILL NOT be able to get a firm connection (net effect is your LAN will appear to come on and off line with the slightest movement).
I ordered this product because in the past I have had success with ASUS (Transformer Prime) and because it was competitively priced.
Once I was browsing and once I had just started a paper for school (it did not save the doc).
I contacted Amazon and they gave me the numbers to call and I contacted Asus, the person I spoke with was not much help... his advise was to backup the files before sending it back.
First, the power supply died after 6 weeks.
It is not centered on the space bar, meaning it is not centered in the "home position".
I returned the laptop to Amazon and received a refund within 10 days from the return.
Planning on buying a second one for my husband in 3 weeks!
My son was ecstatic when Santa brought him this computer.
My husband help him set it up and they are amazed at the speed of this new laptop.
Bought this laptop as a gift for a soon to be college student.
Laptop is great for her needs, not a gamer just a Facebook socialite mixed in with Youtube and other online streaming.
I was eyeing on the Toshiba Satellite C855-S5239 or Asus A55A-AB31(both i3 2.4 with 4gig ram),when i saw this on the Lightning deals.
(-$55) Great deal for the price.
Speakers at the bottom(loud when lifted): - Half star.
This laptop was purchased for my wife beginning graduate school in January.
He uses it daily and it does fine with video playback from the internet as well as gaming.
Perfect for internet use and homework for the average student.
However....
Buy with confidence!update.... Power adapter stopped working on laptop after 6 months of use.
Found a replacement on eBay (obviously others have had the same issue) for $3.49.
great programs  great start for now
Online instructions helped with key usage.
It is perfect for our usage - internet surfing & social networking, along with game playing.
Laptop is being primarily used by a school teacher for Microsoft Office and minimal DVD burning and has lived up to expectations.
bought three of these for kids too use for school and work.
(yeah right) install office and webroot.
Gave to kids early so they would leave mine alone.
When I have time I plan to make it a dual-boot system for her.
works well, is lightweght & got it at grt price to boot.
this was during the black friday sales, and i am a poor college student vet, so i was up a creek for a month until after christmas sales for a laptop while i had classes.
Works well for everyday computer use and tasks.
After a years use keyboard has shown signs of cross contacts so sometimes, as an example, you press "e" and you get the result as if you pressed "windows e".
Also, 2 months after purchase the hard drive failed and had to send it back.
Took the better part of a day to remove windows 8.
Computer booted up quickly and for my purposes, meets all expectations.
Had to be sent back to Asus TWICE within the first 6 months of ownership.
They had to wipe it clean and reload everything- and then do it again a second time two weeks after we received it back from them.
He is going to work and save over the Summer to buy another laptop.
So , a while back (<1 yr) I did a whole bunch of research for a friend who needed a new laptop.
Boy was I wrong, after 3 months this computer broke, the boot disc just stopped working effectively rendering the compute unusable.
However, I had to follow up with them multiple times and they kept saying to me that the progress was good and the computer would be returned "soon".
Well, 5 months later the computer was returned to my doorstep still broken.
I did some research and found out that this company often "loses" computers that they agree to fix.
I decided that I did not want to return the computer to them again just to wait another 5 months for it to come back broken again.
UPDATE: I WAS ABOUT TO DONATE THIS JUNK BUT REPLACING BLOATED WINDOWS WITH A NEW LINUX OS SAVED THE DAY!1)  RELEASE POWER BUTTON TAPPING ESCAPE KEY REPEATEDLY TO INSTALL FROM DVD UBUNTU SERVER 13.04 picking a login id with no spaces, i. e. mikeflores2)  AFTER INSTALLING THE BASIC SERVER OPERATING SYSTEM, LOGIN AND TYPE COMMANDSsudo apt-get updatesudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktopsudo rebootTHE RESULT:  NO VIRUS, WORMS, SPYWARE, ADWARE; JUST A VERY FAST AND COOL NOTEBOOK WITH MORE POWER THAN AN IBM RS6000.
EZ to install optional 4G memory bank to double RAM; just make sure to press in until a spring loaded click is heard.
ASUS support ( via email ) is prompt and effective.
Cons:Face recognition Logon worked only once.440G hard disk drive is not 500G as advertisedSlow to boot and in overall operation including opening browserConstant Windows 7 home premium updates and annoying threats of viruses.
Still getting used to windows 8, having trouble finding everything.
Wanted WIN7 and this was one of the last notebooks with "7".
love it (customer does)wifi is stablealot of garbagesnappy (it would be awesome on SSD)CPU IS GREAT
had to return this but they took it back with no problem.
This will be my daughters PC for doing homework on (translation: play games on).
Got for son going to college.
service helped with walking us through some steps that got it going, for a couple days.
My son reports he has had to pull battery and go through these steps to get it working numerous times the past few weeks.
Compared to my previous (Dell) laptop, it is very quick in my web searches.
Im going to order another one for my son.
He uses it everyday for farming information.
The laptop arrived and I tested everything immediately.
All I really need a computer for is to send and receive email and go on the internet.
It was awesome to find it on the lighting deals.
Every time I ask him he states he loves his new ASUS laptop!!
This was a great purchase formy business start up.
ASUS has now become my go-to vendor for all of our future IT purchases for our company.
Windows 8 is different and hard to learn.
Sent back to Amazon and received replacement.
Amazon was great to deal with but after their return timeframe was over, i had to deal with ASUS.
Windows 8 just is not user friendly and takes time to memorize how to find and use the hidden buttons/features.
Got this laptop for my teenage son to cover all his education/gaming needs (plays mostly strategy games), downgraded to Windows 7 without any problems.
During the downgrading process there is only one thing raised questions - how to convert HDD from GBR HDD partitioning system to MVR (there are lots of internet blogs explains it).
After about one month he is really happy with purchase.
All his favorite games runs using dedicated graphic card without any problems, enough of disk space, connects everywhere to wifi (if available), decent battery life.
Love the ease of navigating the machine after getting used to Windows 8.
She has been playing The Sims 3 and the new Sim City with ease.
Very bn Investigate before buying this product
I had to wait for a trip to the U. S. at last December and I carried the laptop to Gibsonia, Pennsylvania.
I left my laptop on January 4th (more than 3 months after purchase and not being able to use it).
More than 4 months after purchase and I have not been able to use my computer ($700 wasted?).
For those of you having trouble with the touch pad when you turn on the laptop immediately start pushing F2 to enter the bios and then go to advanced and disable the internal pointing device and use a mouse which is what I use anyway.
Not to mention I paid the $3.99 for next delivery only to get an email that due to transit issues (a truck from Sterling to Richmond Va delivered too late).
However, in the future....
In my country (Colombia) this product is costous.
Corsair 16 GB (2x8 GB) DDR3 1600MHz (PC3 12800) Laptop Memory CMSO16GX3M2A1600C11
Got this on black friday for $350.
Pretty fast after putting a ssd drive in
Bought this for my Nana for Christmas when it was time to get rid of the old one (and it was definitely time).
large screenkey paddvd driveGreat laptoplight weightgreat graphicsamazing Asus warrentybattery life seems short - will continue to monitor
My number one need was finding a good laptop with Windows 7 - primarily to avoid the new Windows 8 Operating System.
The tech support (or factory support) ignored my description of the problem with the result being three separate returns over three months.
The system is fast and works as advertised.
The hardware is reliable (after 6 months, anyway) and I have no complaints.
Updated(after 2 months of use)I bought this laptop on black Friday (about $100 discount) to my brother who wants to use it for word processing, internet browsing, watching videos and playing games.
I am planning to use it for basic applications (internet, video, games...) and also to run simulations in Matlab which needs a fast processor.
Other infoI got about 2hrs battery life on high-performance.
bought laptop for daughter works great, uses it for all her school needs, plays her games, contacts her friend,  love it
The delivery was made in the address of my brother in law, in New Jersey.
My wife went to visit her brother and she would bring to Brazil the equipment purchased.
But the pcRUSH sent me a defective product and return it to the pcRUSH, They wanted to charge me a fee of 15% of the purchase amount, ie 15% of $ 2,852.39 = $ 427.85We all get angry.
My brother in law called pcRUSH, and made the complaint.
After that, pcRUSH agreed to make a exception and waive the 15% restocking fee.
I had decided to buy other equipment directly from SONY store.
My wife and her brother were in a large SONY store in Manhattan, and for happiness of all, The SONY store offered us a better alternative that solved the problem.
My wife and my brother in law were 2 times a SONY store in Manhattan, to solve a problem caused by pcRUSH.
The pcRUSH only brought trouble and unnecessary spending.
Good luck,Carlos.
Easy to navigate arrived quickly
Battery charging appears to start out slow; by not charging to 100%.
Checked online, it indicated after ~1000 charges it would then be charged up to 100%.
One of the first notebook using 3rd gen i7 technology.
I BOUGHT THIS FOR MY DAUGHTER AND WITHIN A WEEK, THE HEADPHONE/MICROPHONE PORT STOPPED FUNCTIONING... GOOD THING I BOUGHT AN INSURANCE PLAN...
Replaced 17 inch HP that overheated and died when on skype video call.
Face recognition logon needs work by ASUS.
Hours on the telephone with foreign customer service with terrible and difficult to understand English.
Had to restore the computer so that I could run programs on the second day after arrival.
Perfect for a student (for a full size notebook).
this was a gift to a family member to replace and older model.
if you need a windows 7 lap top and dont want to break the bank, this puppy will get you by.
This mid-level notebook was purchased for a newbie ( my wife) and she is completely comfortable with it.
I bought this lap top for my son who is a college student, so he can use it for his research and essays.
He recomendado a mis amigos.
his desktop is never used and is just gathering dust now that he has this laptop.
Gave it to my daughter now she uses it.
I CALLED AMAZON AND THE PERSON WHO ANSWERED  ,TOLD ME THAT SHE MUST GO TO ANY SAMSUNG STORE IN ORDER TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
MY DAUGTHER DID IT,SHE HAD TO WAIT TEN DAYS FOR GETTING HER LAPTOP AGAIN .
I ordered this computer as a back-up to my main computer and for use in my shop so I could keep up with e-mail and stream music off the internet to my shop stereo.
called tech support but problem remains so returned and paid more to get a hassle free macbook.
I have the Gateway ne56r13u which I bought while it was on sale recently at Target for about $250 (sorry Amazon).
It worked really well for about ten days then stopped accepting a charge.
It was shipped quickly and arrived in brand new condition.
Easy set up and operation.
This laptop is not what it was advertised to be and now after barely a year of having it.. the fan has gone out and the computer will no longer run.
It was given a low rating at that time, the rating was removed because it stopped him from selling to Amazon.
She loved it, till someone broke in and stole all her electronics.
It was especially hard to lose the laptop, with all the family research and photos.
She should have backed them up.
:-)
The first two had issues with the track pad, called Asus customer service they were sort of able to fix the issue but a few days later same issue.
The third one worked flawlessly for the first two days and then the charger died.
Called Asus customer service and was told to fill out a RMA and then they will send out a replacement.
Purchased a month ago.
Second Asus laptop, and continue to be impressed.
Had previous owner and I cannot now download driver updates from ASUS, and they stink!
NEVER BUY FROM ASUS, or buy Asus through Bestbuy as they will not honor returns or exchanges or services.
I bought 2 Ultrabooks when they were on sale.
I am going to keep this but as soon as Samsung bring out their ultrabook with removable ram and hd i will be buying that.
In addition, I had to call customer service because I could not figure out a function on the computer and the young man was very helpful and professional.
Ive had it for about 3 months now and have had zero problems with it.
Ordered laptop for my son to replace a broken Dell.
When he compared it to his friends alienware, it was just as fast at quite a bit less money.
He did not want a 17".
Silence from my college student about the laptop means he is happy.
The July, 2012 issue of Consumer Reports rates it higher than the MacBook Pro (an $1,800 Samsung was number 1, HP DV6-7014nr #2 and MacBook Pro #3).
Be prepared to pay a bit more money to purchase a custom order direct from HP, plus a couple of weeks (or more) to receive it from them.
However, the computer freezes for a minute or two every now and then.
After my original laptop suddenly died when the video card stopped working (video card was attached to motherboard and new motherboard is $215 plus labor)Anyways, I got this here laptop.
I got it for $464 on amazon when it is $522 at staples (before rebates).2: It comes with 4GB of memory (RAM) that can expand up to 8GB.3: This computer can do a lot at once.
The computer was running smoothly.
Note that mine came with a low-voltage 4G module, so I had to hunt for another low-voltage one to put in there (I added a Samsung).2) The optical drive does not handle marginal-quality discs as well as other drives do.
To be brief, she is very very happy with her gift and that, dear reader, is what matters.
This didship and arrive a week early as well.
Transfer of data from the old to the new was very easy with a transfer cable, with no professional help.
On the very first day that it arrived, I discovered that it had a faulty DVD RW drive.
Dell refused to repair or replace the bad DVD drive under warranty claiming it was a Windows 7 software problem.
Any USB mass storage device hooked up to the USB 3.0 ports intermittently becomes corrupted with bad data, requiring a reformat of the USB device.
The only way to get rid of the lines was to temporarily power off the computer.
Then amazingly, 3 days before the 1 year warranty was going to expire, the computer was failing memory diagnostics and 1 day later it started powering up with a white screen and did not respond to any keyboard inputs.
Right now, I am stuck with a broke 1 year old Dell Alienware laptop computer that cost $2000 and is totally non-functional and useless.
Nice looking machine ,works OK for 3 weeks,but now powers off for no reason and then locked up with no way to reboot except by performing a "hard reset".
Am sending it back to HP.
Everything is as described in technical specs, only you can not expect really 9 hours of battery life when you are streaming video from Internet - 4 hours max.
Wish the charging connection was magnetic like my macbook, for safety considerations - if someone tripped over the power cord, this lightweight laptop would be launched into orbit!
This HP replaces a 5-yr old unit.
The computer is top notch, fast, and a good name brand for support.
Bought for my son for his birthday.
He loves it, it is great for his homework and games
After a number of struggles with PCs from every major manufacturer, I finally decided to try a Mac Air and I love it.
Got this for my wife for her consulting.
Toshiba Z935... closed the lid and left it on a table overnight, turned on the next morning with display flickering and a cluster of dead pixels.
I sent it to the repair center and soon received multiple crazy, inconsistent quotes ranging from $325 - $459.
They also claimed that it was physically damaged.
HP sold it too expensive over USD $100; especially, on a faded out model.
What is holding this back from a 5 star is small things such as the status lights (hard drive, wifi, charging, etc) are on the front edge of the laptop and hidden by your left hand.
When it arrived it asked for a password for user "ASUS".
when I informed seller (excaliberpc)  about this, he contacted with Asus and he did a wonderful effort to get global warranty.
They said they would ship it back to ASUS and it would take 3 weeks.
The keyboard decides to just stop working at times.
They had an old laptop with and i5 processor and Windows 8 which ran circles around this laptop.
Second, the Graphics card:Utilizing a dual card schema, the laptop uses an Intel 4000 for less difficult work in order to preserve battery power.
Back to the drawing board and weeks of researching.
There is a single screw on the bottom that is used to change the DVD drive to a blu ray drive.
Upon power up I loaded MS Office & Security @$200.00+ cost, then realized Asus features were not working, Seller would not rereimburse if returned, I had to give it to a pro for repair at a cost of $150.00, Yes if seller did the right thing and payed my out of pocket I would have given him a better rating "Deceptive Seller"
Like the 1080 hi resolution screen, and all the other specs (8 GB RAM, 1 TB hard drive, video board with 2GB discrete memory).
After an extensive two-months research on laptops, I ended up purchasing the Asus N56VJ from Amazon.
A new harddrive was sent in a little over a week.
Still.... this situation caused ALOT of runaround on my part including reinstalling everything on my old computer during the interim and having to reinstall everything on this machine when the new harddrive came in (not to mention a happy trip to the post office and having to pay for shipping :).
Comes with programs that are questionable as to their usefulness.
Everything works as advertised.
About three weeks later I got the computer back and everything has been working good since.
This is one of the greates laptop in 15 inch class regular size (not ultrabook) laptop.
This was the only laptop at the moment on Amazon which incorporated 8GB, 1TB, 2 GB full size video car AND (which very important) Full HD laptop.
I needed to send my laptop in for repair after only 14 days of normal use.
It had over 130 tasks running right after boot up.
Plesed with computer; very quick response, great to have a new laptop.
She has been using it for about 1 1/2 years now and could not be happier.
I am blown away by the graphics she is able to create and am very happy we chose the ASUS instead of the MAC.
Hard drive was dead in 6 months and sent it back to the service center.
The new hard drive was dead again yesterday (less than 4 months).
My first machine was defective (crack under monitor).
Conclusion:Perfect home multimedia center.
We selected this laptop for our son, who is a freshman in college.
Had this computer for a few weeks now.
I got this computer planning to switch out the hard drive for an ssd (crucial 512gb) thinking that I could just easily install win 7 onto it.
The first computer I received was in Chinese, sent is back, got a replacement computer with next-day shipping.
GREAT computer for under $1000 - beat BestBuy and Newegg prices.
Games seem to run ok, but computer takes forever to boot.
Hate Windows 8, plan to downgrade to Windows 7 as soon as possible, or install Linux.
I hated the fact that amazon gave only 30 days for returning, because now after the 30 days the laptop is down with the dvd.
Purchased to replace an old desktop with a single AMD cpu that was long in the tooth with only 1GB memory.
"Theres nothing they can".
My spouse, for example, travels extensively and has for years carried a laptop to conduct her business anywhere in the world.
I bought this as a gift for my son in college as his old laptop was dying.
They sent him a label for FEDEX GROUND.
It is another 5-7 business days for fixing it and another 6 days for return.
this went back after a couple of days.
you got to love ASUS ;)
B&O;      , ,   ,      .
ordered it on amazon, arrived in less than a week!
I purchased this HP Pavilion computer (M6-1045DX model)from Best Buy for my daughter to use at college and within one month the screen had cracked when she inadvertently left the headphone plug  in the computer when she closed it.
Six months later our dog stepped on the cover of the closed computer and the screen cracked again.5 Years ago I purchased my older daughter a dv6000 series Pavilion for college and besides having to replace the CPU fan once the laptop has been running strong to this day.
I truly regret purchasing this laptop as now I have to buy my daughter another more reliable/rugged  laptop for her second year of school.
After having this laptop 4 months I was ready to replace it (I replace my laptop once a year) Now having the screen/keyboard issues only progress I will be having to purchase a new laptop earlier than anticipated.
I purchased this for my 16 year old high school student.
Like it but keyboard stopped working 6 months into having it and had to send it back for a new keyboard, but at least it was under warranty so it was free.
:)
Does everything she needs for school.
I bought this laptop when I started doing contract work via the internet.
Been needing a laptop for a dedicated music server.
The price was right and the HD sufficient, (650 gig).
I realize that laptops will soon be obsolete, and hoped to be able to save money buying one used.
however, the hinge on the left side broke and is out of warranty for a damage issue, (according to customer service/repair center) I, like so many others on the website at Toshiba .
Repair for a broken hinge, aka terrible quality will run me 390.00 dollars to repair.
Hinges on this laptop are defective, first set broke while still in warrenty and got replaced, second set just broke.
I bought this computer for my daughter about 15 months ago.
13 months after the purchase, one of the hinges broke and Toshiba will do nothing about it since it was officially past the 12 month warranty period.
After searching the internet for a fix, this appears to be a VERY common problem with this computer.
I have been a Toshiba advocate, purchasing several computers from them, until now.
Also, it repeatedly loses internet connection.
First hinge broke after few months they replace but I spent $25 for delivery (ridiculous) after a year the other hinge broke too.
The cost of fixing was $180.
Two months later the first broke again.
Check out the net there are several ones ready to sell with broken hinge.
While writing papers for various educational purposes, one never realizes how many times a certain letter is used until the computer decides, "nope, no "n" for today!
The only annoying thing is that one key (the - key) gets stuck when you press it.
One for the Go and one for home.
Buy one and try one.
they are pushing cloud in the sky storage ,reg edit,file optimizer,advance protector,online backup,online vault backup that keep popping up on the screen.
The product arrived on time.
her other mac is so heavy to carry arount.
I bought one through bestbuy, the first one took a week to arrive and once it did the webcam did not work and a couple of the keys  fell off.
After hours on the phone with tech support both Ibuypower AND geeksquad and another two hours in store there was no resolution to the webcam issue.
This new laptop came loaded and ready to go, the keys were secure, the OS(Windows 7) works seamlessly and the webcam worked at first.
not as good as Toshibas u may find in stores.
I bought this laptop about a year ago with the intention of having a computer for school and casual gaming.
Then, about six months ago, it started overheating, and when this laptop overheats, it automatically shuts down, which is really frustrating when you are in the middle of playing a game.
The only ventilation it has is a small vent on the left side and a perforated panel on the bottom-left corner of the laptop.
Do not buy this computer, after a couple months the glitching started and HDMI and USB started to go.
Less then one year later I had replaced the hard drive, had one working USB port, and the overheating began.
Customer service and tech support are useless, after an hour repeating countless times I was told if I spent 50 initially and 15$for 12 months they could fix all problems over my computer, and as obvious as this seems it was a total and complete lie and had to wait another 20 mins to get refunded.
The good: The laptop arrived quickly and was exactly as advertised.
Even during the holiday season they were able to stick to their word.
Got a protective case Kuzy suits good and saves from my daughter.
its good for laptop use but  for gaming u can use it its  so its better to remove it and plug the cable :) that why u can safe ur batter for out door  ;)i dont know whats more i can add cuz i have Game to play now XD  ... Guild War 2  with max stetting  on PVE but on wvwvw u need to do it with auto detect  its will make it mixed with high and med settingand i play warhammer i can play it with max setting :)i will update later if some thing new-----------------------UPDATEi did play Guild Wars 2 with max setting its was not that good but after update the driver to latest BETA Drivernow the FPS 40-50  with a max setting thats really good for laptop ^_^i will update some in game photo with FPS-------------------------UPDATEi want to add some info for who want to custom the GPU  on which program u need the intel GPU run and which one for Nvidia GPUgo to Nvidia Control Panel  > Manage 3D Setting > Program Settingthen chose which program u need to on Select a program if u didnt find it just brows itthen go to number 2. select the preferred graphicsif this program is a Game thats need high Graphics then chose  the High Performanceif its not that high games or u notice some time ur graphics run on some program that u dont need it to run there u can chose Integrated graphicsthats the best way u can do it to increasing  the battery  and to reduce the heat and to make sure where u need it to run
Gaming is insane.........
MSI Computer Corp. Notebook Computer GT70 0NE-276US;9S7-176212-276 17.3-Inch LaptopUpdated driver and called MSI tech support, not able to resolve issue.
Unfortunately the same problems exist where the new Windows 7 does not completely integrate with the functions available on laptops from 7-10 years ago.
After just 3 weeks the hd crashed.
so on balance:Machine equal five starsOperating system (Windows 8) equals minus one star.
After two weeks of very light use (I used this laptop maybe 3-4 days out of the week during the two weeks I actually had it) and it became inoperable today.
However, the start up time is a big reclaimer to the otherwise disappointing operating system.
The computer locked up after installing windows updates.
Again tech support did not know that a fix for VAIO Update had been posted a month ago.
Tech support told be that their IT department was working on it, and "would have a fix shortly.
"The final result is that the computer is working ok now.
I bought it at local store for $899.99.
I upgraded memory to 16GB(8GBx2) and replaced the hard drive to 256GB SSD as well.
Cons:  The included power cord is very short and awkwardly connect to the very center of the back of the laptop.
But then the hard drive died on one of them.
Their website told me I had to take it a local authorized repair company I tried this and after going to the 3 places they listed the 1st two told me do not make repairs on these computers the 3rd one said they could do the repair but just as i was leaving they called me back to let me know that Lenovo had just changed their policy and now they could not fix it.
I then called Levono the following day and at first was told that I needed to take the laptop to a local repair company, I explained that that was not the case and I was put on hold for quite a while.
Features Include:15.6" screen with LED backlight (1366x768)Intel i3-380M Dual-Core 2.53GHz Processor with 3MB cache320GB hard drive, 5400 RPM2GB DDR3 RAM (8GB Max)Intel Graphics Media Accelerator HDWindows 7 Home Premium 64-bit OSWiFi 802.11 b/g/n built-in, Gigabit EthernetDVD Super Multi Dual Layer Burner0.3Mp Webcam with microphoneSD/MMC/MS.
Mine arrived a few days after ordering and have been using it for several months now.
Returning and getting a Apple Mac Book Air to run bootcamp and Windows.
Lenovo has lots of supporting tools and a backup of data to SugarSync cloud.
I bought at WalMart 2 years ago it is on at least 8 hours a day not only for her school work but she has two sisters who also use it for school work.
Three girls using the lap top for music, movies and school work and it keeps on going.
It gets over six hours of battery life in the right computer settings.
Perfect for my mother in law who tears up a laptop once a year.
Bbc computers that you used to get in schools 20 odd years ago run quicker than this.
The box was open, computer was turned on and played with.
It came in a day being that I live in New York and it shipped from Brooklyn, but never the less; I was expecting a brand new, never opened laptop!
I was so happy to sell it back to a friend of mine.
the laptop came with a VIRUS.
Somehow, between the 2 of them and my money they got the computer to boot to the USB.
Then I began getting warnings about unplugging the USB prior to the entire system shutting down.
ASUS has always been a great company, and they are definitely a quickly rising star.
Loaded with software to get off to a good start.
There is some problem with the computer coming back from sleep.
Save your self the hassle and get an alienware
Perfect for school, bus or airplane.
With tablets and windows 8 netbook running windows 7 are an endangered specie.
Now the bad Toshiba service is the worst besides sony in the industry.
I bought mine new and contacted Toshiba about it right away unfortunately it was passed the 30 days, by about 5 days.
Still well within the warranty, Toshiba will not send out a new product.
They want me to send mine in and have me pay for shipping then wait 4-6 weeks for it to get back.
I am actually hoping the laptop causes damage to something else and I will sue these morons for not backing their system better.
We like the sealed keyboard (no space between the keys to catch dirt).
She is happy.
I bought a Dell Vostro 3700 laptop a couple years ago and it worked fine for the most part until recently when it began to shut down suddenly on me.
After some research, I installed a utility called SpeedFan which reported the temperature sensors on the motherboard were getting extremely high and that was was was causing the shutdowns to occur.
BUT the real problem I discovered is that in order to access the fans, one has to first remove the motherboard.
And in order to remove the motherboard, one has to first disconnect a number of connectors to various wire harnesses that attach to the motherboard.
These connectors consist of extremely small plastic housings with extremely small tabs that lock the wire harness to the connector on the motherboard.
And because the motherboard has been getting very hot, these plastic connectors have also been getting very hot and turned brittle!
After I broke the third connector I decided to stop my attempt to remove the motherboard.
In order to reconnect the broken connectors, I resorted to using some epoxy glue to glue the wire harnesses to the connector on the motherboard and managed to restore my laptop back to a running state.
I bought it as a gift to my girl friend and she loves it.
The only way to get out of this is to log off and log back in.
The hot keys at the top of the keyboard are swapped.
Now after about 2 years, entire folders disappear.
HP Has A Long History Of Shunning Their Customers.
Our family all use Apple computers because they are user friendly.
Of course, all this comes at a price - although my experience with Apple products suggest they last a long time and I have never had one compromised (Have been using a desktop for over 3 years).
The laptop arrived on time and in great condition.
Will never go back to another computer.
Wife had to buy a $75 attachment drive.
!$680 to fix after a few months of use.
I bought for a client, the biggest deal was having to reorder DVD and a USB hub for additional equipment
She was using a four year old Mac Book Pro that had been a workhorse for her business and personal computer needs.
Great laptop, super quick & slim.
Amazon does a great job in protecting and packaging my orders.
Bought this for granddaughter who was graduating.
I was able to save a few hundred dollars over the Apple Store and take the MacBook into the Apple Store and buy AppleCare there.
Thus I get all the support I want from the local store, while saving money by buying from Amazon.
Recently left the Army for college and this was a gift from my wife.
)Setting up a developer environment is harder than compiling and installing a Linux kernel.
No package manager available by default, you better get started with that.
Been a PC user and now switched to Mac.
First had iPod then iphone and now a Mac.
Went to Mac store where they tried to revive it.
They exchanged it with a brand new machine after chiding me for buying the product from non-Apple entity.
However, when I ordered it, turned out great.
Seeing as I purchased this item from Amazon I chose to do the return through them (it has only been 3 days since I purchased it).
Pros: i7-3630QM processor @ 3.4GHZ, ATI Radeon HD 7730m 2GB graphics card, New windows 8 key, Windows 8Cons: took my a while to get used to configuring the "Switchable Graphics" for my games.
other cons are the Samsung preloaded software.
so i installed the free Start Menu (Pokki) to restore the old START menu.
now im traveling abroad and i need to setup the Bios password access just in case this laptop gets stolen by some crooks to deter them from accessing my files and email.
One, since day one it has become warped above the keyboard on the left side between the Fkeys and the monitor, Two, Windows 8 is a headache.
Not recomended for Online Flash games or other CPU intensive Apps because of the Temps when at max Speeds...
Got this unit at Best Buy in Canada for $499 yesterday and it came with 8GB of ram not 6GB.
Had this laptop for a couple months before the keyboard started to fall apart, keys getting loose and eventually falling off.
Now after 3 months with the unit.
The Win8 drivers were dated (9/2012) and I could not update them from Samsung, they only had Win7 drivers for the unit.
However, they are very limited at this time on what they can do to help you downgrade back to Win7.
On wiping the drive, I found out the system had two hard drives, the system is running a RAID Mirror from the factory.
After a week of trying, I was able to get the unit operational at 95%.
Problems started from day one.
The laptop was dumping a lot of the heat over the WASD keys.
About 1 month after to be exact.
Samsung is stepping up in the world of electronics.
I had paid for the 1 day shipping service and plan to have this gamer 7 before the new year.
It seems Amazon did not ship the new product to the customer, instead of the refurbished laptop to his loyal customer.... Beware of that...=(
When i received the computer i was not able to run the internet.
I have had tons of issues with getting the 3d to work, saumsung customer service really is horrible, not their tech support but their Executive Customer relations team.
The mode control dial is broken by a Windows 8 update.
Web browsing  In place of my Android Tablet, Im couch browsing every night on this device without the keyboard attached.
Im a doodler with dreams of becoming an artist.
Many of the current reviews knock the Ativ docking keyboard (both for the 500T and 700T).
Need to VPN into the company server, no problem.
I bought a new PC  from Dahmart/KnockoutDeals and they sent a refurb.
It had a bad touchscreen after two weeks and they will not replace it only offered a refund.
Not OK after pruchasing all the accessories and third party warrantee.
I only wanted a new computer : (  After a huge hassle it is now at Samsung getting refurbed again under the now 90 day warrantee.
( instead of 1 year)  RIPPED OFF!!!!
when these get to under $900, they will be the go to form factor.
Samsung is on a roll with their creative products.
I love it that I can use steam and play call of duty MW2 on this, which after having to deal with subpar FPS apps, is a dream come true.
I have been using Manga studio 5, playing Call of duty black ops using the xbox 360 for windows controller with zero problems.
November 15, 2012 - Microsoft Store in Alexandria VA had two, I got one.
Needed to reboot for the stylus.- WiFi stopped working, it turned off.
when turning it on, would not find any networks, took two reboots to start to work.2) it is heavier than the iPad.
Customer support from Samsung is ok,  i called them and they wanted me to send in the keyboard and tablet.
They need to get rid of these as the Lenovo Yoga 11s is about to come out and is a better choice.
?As soon as i started up the system and went thru all the configurations and set up, i found that the AC adaptor when connected to the tablet is "touchy" it would charge and discharge by simple movements of the power cord, but when its on the dock keyboard i had no issues.. i am taking it back and i am debating on replacing it or opting to buy an ASUS Taichi.
Seriously?- No USB2Ethernet adapter (some businesses require this for securing their wireless network)- No microHDMI2VGA adapter (more money to add to the price tag)- Heavy
She also loves the custom desktop and case.
I am a graduate student and full time teacher.
For my "light" use of internet and office type programs, this computer is perfect.
:-)
It comes with Windows 7 Home Premium, Microsoft Office Starter, and Norton 60-day subscription.
Get the Pro series which has the connections in the back of the computer.
My Dell M1330 of five years, and 3 hard drives later finally gave up the ghost.
(3.88 lbs.
I had previously purchased the X1 (it got stolen).
Pros:Superfast (startup, shutdown, and daily tasks)LightFingerprint Reader actually worksCons:No HDMI out.
Product arrived timely from vendor.
Windows 7 updates from microsoft were installed and computer was turned off.
On second day, computer would not come on... dead.
Computer was retuned to vendor.
This review is based on an approximate six weeks of experience with the HP Envy DV7-7250US.
I also bought a Plugable docking station to interface the new laptop with a desktop LG VDU, speakers, keyboard, mouse, printer and fax.
I am able to not only work in my home office close to my paper files, but also move the new HP around the house.
excellentthe product meets expectationspracticalcompactmodernusefullightweightbeautiful designaccessiblegood price, sent in perfect condition by the supplier
I have tried HP customer service and Windows customer service and each time encountered  a request for a monetary fee for service or a difficult to understand customer service rep. Tread carefully......
They refurbished mine and sent it back.
They sent it in a tore up box and the computer was scratched.
(Had to have it done at a repair shop).
The only drawback is that all of the plug ins are on the side - both sides.
Does come with Windows 8 however which takes some getting used to.
I was not impressed about "simple pass" when I purchased the computer.
Also, the computer is loaded with junk and has to stay very close to the router to pick up a wireless signal.
Will be sending back.
- Daughter (14)
CPU went out in 3.5 months, tried to work with HP customer service.
Amazon came through with shipping label same day for a full refund.
Get the Logitech (T60) touch mouse as it is made for windows 8it make using and learning much faster as you cannot control window 8 with just the scroll bar the scroll bar makes things much harder.
After 4 attempts with the "helpless" desk in India and running through the diags, I am returning the computer to have it worked on.
18 year old son loves it and the new Windows 8 tiles.
Good for business and school uses.
Expected a computer with 2.4 ghz chip, however it is built with a 1.9 ghz chip.
Got this for my son who researched many different laptops for their usefulness for both school and gaming.
Received the unit in 3 days.
a graduation gift to my 17 year old high school daughter & had this laptop for barely 2 weeks when it froze on her.
She loves the security feature
This was such a great buy & my daughter loves it - she will get alot of use out of it!
I sent it back before it had a chance for anything else to go wrong with it.
When we contacted the seller, even thought we were within the return period, we were told that we will be credited 30$ & we will have to keep the product & get it repaired from HP support center!!
As soon as it arrives, go get it repaired!After few mail exchanges, they have finally agreed to take the product back!!
we have already sent the laptop & it has been 1 week since it has reached them.
Right now it is in the repair shop being reset, this is the 2nd time I have had to reset her computer to manufacter settings.
It was sent back to HP for repairs which meant we had no computer for 10 days.
Since then, there have been regular problems with the computer talking to the printer and the WiFi.
Many hours have gone into talking on the phone with HP to resolve all of these problems.
I asked both the seller (DoReMi) and HP to refund our money and both have refused.
I ordered this for my son, who is in graduate school.
Window 8 is taking a while to learn other nice laptop.
According to her, this HP is awesome.
Her problem is with Windows 8 which she totally dislikes.
The Windows 8 its difficult to use and apparently the pc didnt came with office :( installed!
It was bought for a small business using AutoCAD software to create drawings.
After one week of use, it crashed.
6 hours on the phone with HP reps did nothing to solve the problem.
And 750 GB Hard Drive which can store large amount of data.
After that you can learn to use Windows 8 in your spare time but begin using your laptop immediately.
Have to close entire computer to just get out of a program.
The only negative is the HP support assistant with frequent software updates that require manual control in order to succesfully complete, and annoying reminders if you try to ignore them.
mine is falling apart at the seems.
returned to amazon for a full refund.
less than three months later the speakers stopped working and the system crashed.
The H. P. is a great gift and the wife loves to play and do her business on it.
I am no where near being a computer geek, but for work, home & general purposes this laptop is awesome !
BEFORE I THOUGHT IT WOULDNT HAVE ALOT OF GB AND WOULDNT HAVE A PASSWORD ON IT, WHEN I ORDERED IT ON EBAY ABOUT 3 YEARS AGO, THE WHOLE LAPTOP IT SELF FELL DOWN ONCE AND BROKE, I TRIED TO ORDER A HP LAPTOP 15.6 INCHES ON AMAZON, IT IS AMAZING.
recieved my computer in only 2 business days.
I purchased a laptop, was told 2 weeks max but it came in 4 weeks after countless arguing.
In other words, it was purchased to browse internet and to run basic office products.
the computer arrived on time.
The laptop was purchased as a gift to my daughter and she loved it.
Only had it 2 weeks when her house was broken into and the thief stole it.
It repeatedly losses internet connection , despite the mobile hotspot device constantly on.
Great computer for out family!!
Use it daily for social media and work.
It was for my child which needs for her study and the product meets all the requirements what is needed.
I contacted ST online and filed a claim.
Within 2 days I received an okay to have the notebook taken to a local repair facility and they were able to repair it for a great price in 4 days.
Would contionously disconnect from internet.
I have taken to a sales computers and was told the Java system and Windows 8 and Pogo programs are not working together.
I can not return the computer,to late from date of sale, goes to show you bad  merchandise is sold with no sales person to help leaving customers wander what to do next.
I purchased a Sony VAIO computer 14 inch laptop from M-e-e in Amazon Marketplace.
The WiFi does not have a manual switch, so to turn off the WiFi you have to turn off via the Windows Control Panel or with the Sony VAIO software.
Unfortunately that was also not possible for Windows 8 due to secure boot.
Seems to be just what they want in a bargain computer.
However, the plastic strip that goes around the screen has started to come off from the right side.
ASUS does not have a contract with Microsoft for the user to get Microsoft Starter; instead, you must pay an additional $200 to purchase and activate a key code.
I bought for a friend, she is happy with it and Windows 8.
I love the metal case (plastic ones just chip and crack).
1:on the top lid (where it is black) it gets finger prints and other oily prints very easily.
Windows 8 takes some getting use to.
Needed a college laptop in a hurry to replace a fried unit.
The student shopped hard.
This one met all of his exacting criteria, and met the parent budget too.
Not a gaming system, but plenty of power for school and business apps, as well as streaming media.
Tried installing better driver for it (Synaptics) but still horrible experience.
Too cheap of a quality for them to ask for 550$!I returned mine the next day, good luck to you if you decide to spend your money on this..
if you are a basic laptop user, regular internet site, update your calendar etc.
user is forced to go to the store.
He said that the hard drive was gone and they would replace it for $300.
PC World magazine saved my bacon by having a ton of articles about the usage.
Too many problems to try to trouble shoot for a new computer.
(I have purchased and configured thousands over time) I found Windows 8 to be nothing more than an irritation.
I returned the unit and ordered another ASUS with Windows 7.
Key board works well but needed to purchase adapter to change USB to mini in order to use the keyboard.
ASUS S56CA-DH51 15.6-Inch Ultrabook (Black)I have upgraded it to Windows 8.1 PRO With Media CenterI installed Office 2013 Professional Plus  ++ Visio, Project.
But?They will fix it,  and it is a killer machine,  when it comes home from ASUS it gets a ram upgrade from 6 to 16 GIG so I can go nuts with Hyper-V  My own Lab
Ihad to call to Asus warranty service in Mexico to try to solve the problem
Hard disk went out shortly after arrival but ASUS delt with it quickly and at no charge to me.
I wished I had a choice when I ordered I would have chosen 7.
Have had to research constantly where to find things!!
Only use the notebook for about 30 days, while towards upgrade and then reboot and gave no sign of life.
Only one LED lights up, try to start the hard disk and then stops.
someone at microsoft is out of their mind.
Three days after receiving the laptop the screen started to blank off when I moved the lid.
I emailed contacted customer support and two days later a replacement had arrived.
The new laptop seems to be in good order expect that the * and - key by the numpad are in the reverse places :-S(rushed manufacturing ??).
She is still getting used to the new version of Windows, but she loves the laptop.
Gave to my daughter for her birthday.
She loves it and likes Windows 8 for the device interfaces
However only 90 GB is usable and of that 90 GB, 40 GB were already filled with pre-installed software.
I bought this one a year later to replace the UX31A-DB51 that I sent back 2 weeks after buying due to faulty keyboard and track pad.
We contacted this seller within 10 days or so of purchase of the laptop and he has been harassing us with the return policy.
He wants to we buy a new one, send it to him, pay shipping back for the returned product and keep the returned product with us.
Yeah, this can be solved by downloading the new driver.
But then it started crashing more and more often, until 2 weeks ago when it became impossible to start up and even running recovery on it failed.
I sent it in for a diagnosis & repair strongly suspecting hard drive issues.
No key in the packaging.
There are couple issues with this laptop likeinternet get drop when upgrade to Windows 8.1Can wakeup from external mouse.
I end up get help from google search with trial & errorI am rating the ASUS technical support = 1 star.
I required a return within 30 days, but wa rejected by the seller.
After the first 6 months, I had the first issue with the software - so one can only blame Microsoft for this.
Windows 7 started crashing regularly.
One year passed by and one fine day, in June 2013, the charger stopped working.
Three days back, my hard drive crashed and I am effectively out of a laptop and am back in the market shopping for another one, just after a year of owning this.
The return process was cumbersome and painful but eventually worked out.
Giving them $1000 was a mistake.
I travel on a regular basis and wanted a laptop to carry around.
The other review talking about the track pad was correct, however they updated the software for the unit and its totally fixed.
The only difficult section is getting used to the quick gestures that Windows 8 uses to move between programs, scan up and down a page etc.
I finally gave in to my desire to have my very own Zenbook, and I contacted my friends at Amazon on August 27, 2013, and ordered the ASUS UX31A-DH71 13.3-Inch Zenbook Prime.
The 50Wh lithium-ion polymer battery easily lasts six hours on a charge, enabling the user to accomplish a great deal of work while commuting on a train, or flying to a professional conference.
Im owner of UX31 zenbook, 1.5y old.
it was in repair 4 times during 1st year.
list of failures - lcd matrix, audio speakers, power plug - list goes on.
third they post reviews on specially built models, while selling those with much cheaper ssd.
their repair takes at least one month.
I thought I had upgraded the 256 to 500G when ordering.
It takes no more than 5 sec to startup and have no pause in running programs (games not tested).
And the full HD resolution causes anomaly when open some webpages.
Keyboard keys are fragile (one fell off).
The Windows 8 software on the unit and the drivers were a mess.
I had problems with the SSD data getting corrupted due to the power save configuration (turned off default write cache and only shutdown the machine - no suspend or hibernate).
The unit gets very hot when running games on it and it takes a lot of power in all situations, so you will find it difficult to use in airplanes except when they have the full 200watt outlets.
The power connector started getting loose on the unit and that and the keyboard needed to be sent back to Asus for repair.
Downloaded Intel driver and with worked better (longer periods), but the Wifi support is horrible and painful to deal with.
Apparently you are stuck with old drivers unless you figure out how to go to Nvidia and download the drivers yourself (they are not auto detected).
is not the same height as the other $ making the ultrabook woble....
Its all most comical since all the other countries including Mexico had actual contact call in phone number but in the United States it was a CHAT service.
So they had NO solutions so Im sending this Asus back to Amazon and will never even consider purchasing from them again.
Had to send back for repairs after two weeks.
System wouldn"t boot.
(Make headphones terminal and VGA terminal and the HDMI terminal the left side!
(Clean install of MS Office is not possible.)
As soon as I recieved the laptop I had to get rid of windows 8 ( what a piece of s*** from microsoft) so once that was done , install the drivers and some other software and its the perefect machine.
crash to complete and instant shut off.
I bought another Toshiba whose motherboard decided to blow in the middle of a semester.
The keys stick around the letter "L".
5 Stars for the computer and 1 Star for Windows 8.
Mine is 5 years old and still going.
Save yourself and buy a machine with any other operating system.
The mouse would not work, had to get my "plug in mouse" to find the help page, to get the finger mouse to work F5.
The book that comes with the computer is only a Quick Start Guide it only shows u the main functions of the computer(where to plug in,etc.)
The build quality is poor and if u dont have the extended warranty protection, you might as well be ready to discard the product for a new one.. as the cost of repairs will quickly set you back by a few hundred dollars.
After investing my time creating backup media, configuring for home network, installing software and virus protection the AC adapter failed 10 days later.
NOTE - the AC adapter was plugged in once and never moved, as this is home based computer and charges overnight as needed in the same location.
Called Toshiba support and was told - they will ship a replacement UPS 3-5 business days!
Asked to speak with a manager as this was 9:00 PM at night on a Wednesday, so my wife would not have a computer for a week just before Christmas.
I explained to her 10 day old laptop, failed charger - need one quicker than a week - she told me there was no other option.
She was very professional, however corporate Toshiba support is focused on their bottom line and not on their customers.
Then they shipped it back before I had a chance to respond.
My computer broke after 4 months and it was the fan and asked me to sign off and return it to manufacturer.
When I have to return to the manufacturer, I have to pay for shipping.
The shipping comes with an option to mail it by yourself or with their glorified laptop box and the confirmation receipt for $24.99.
This computer is good and work is excellent, however the new system (windows 8) is annoying.
If you are trying to buy a new laptop that would be a good choice but try to stick with (windows 7).
The battery charge is good for users who travel.
Today, the mouse stopped working.
I called Amazon was told to call Toshiba, called Toshiba was told to call Amazon as they were the purchasers of the unit.
Called Amazon again and was told that I would have to return and then buy another unit as they could not replace as not sold by the same group?
Only this team will miss the HDMI port.
I purchased this laptop at the beginning of the school year at office depot for a good price on tax free weekend.
After about three months,the WiFi stopped working and we had to pay 69 dollars for the online customer support to fix it.
Now after about two months after the WiFi incident, the computer froze up and I shut it down and tried to restart it, but now it will not even turn on.
I do not like how you have to buy everything to put on a computer now days, they give you a week trial or a month free trial some apps have a 60-90 day free trial.
after your trial they want another hundred to a couple hundred dollars for the product.
same with security and virus stuff.
only a trial.
Toshiba !, state of the art computer, this is the ninth computer at home and all of them have been almost perfect
I opened it, the display was cracked ( the liquid was visible and going around and behind the screen,)Then I sent it back another month passed by... they sent me a supposedly a new one!
Since Toshiba has a great and reliable name I decided to order it, from Toshiba.
Exceptional notebook & operating system.
I made the return smoothly and the money was returned quickly.
windows 8 is tough to get used to.
the apps are not installed they are all free trials.
I bought this laptop during a Cyber Monday sale and I could not have been happier with the specs I got for the price, my purchase arrived on time and well packaged (as is standard with most items shipped via Amazon Prime).
The keyboard has strangely spaced keys (some are grouped in blocks that require you to have monstrous hands to switch across blocks).
First I located a program from another reviewer who rated this computer that allowed me to bypass the Windows 8 environment and Second I ordered 16 gigs of memory and installed this upgrade in the first few days and am glad I did on both counts.
Excelent laptop: fast, light and a very bright monitor (very usefull when processing images)... windows 8 definitely not my favorite windows.
My husband also has a Toshiba Satellite laptop.
I returned it after 3 days and have not had a chance to research another option.
Ive called toshiba 5 times(spanning 4 hours and they dropped my call) and have completed 2 full recoveries but nothing has worked.
Im debating on just returning it and getting my money back and spending it on a different laptop but my brother has a toshiba laptop and it has been running perfectly since day one and he bought it 6 months ago.
The item arrived on date and in the same conditions that was published.
Got mine for a Xmas present for my wife and it worked alright for the first 3 months before the problems started to appear.
I will be selling mine after only 8 months, laptop did not meet my expectations.
buy from Amazon only or good luck with few seller.
Also Windows 8 is turning out to be quite easy to use after a bot of a learning curve.
This was a Christmas present for my 19 year old son and sophomore international business major.
He describes it as fast and loves the mouse pad which he states is really responsive.
It is very slim and lightweight and his college roommate, who is a techie, says this is the one to buy.
Since I got it (7 months ago)the battery life was nearly 4 hours and now it lasts only 1 hour!
And it is only seven months old!!!
The product arrived on time, and was as described.
Got this one for my son to start college with.
They could have included a CD/DVD drive...
com buyer, I bought this laptop for a great price of $350 (with $50 MIR) from Staples.
Update: Day 1 (12/21) - Laptop arrived in great condition.
This was purchased as a travel computer to replace lugging around a heavier laptop.
My bad i never returned the laptop or raised any complaint with in 30days of purchase as it started crashing often, over heated and finally when i send it to the HP service center they tell that this laptop cannot be servcied as this Motherboard chips are burned due to moisture content.
Got this for my wife when her old hp developed the "black screen problem".
She loves the boot speed of Windows 8.
She did not like the Metro user interface face so I used Google search to find ways to give her a regular desktop.
Save up your money and buy a Mac.
We have not delved into the Windows 8 portion of the computer but she can do her homework and play games on the laptop like she wants.
I bought this laptop for my daughter, who is in high school and she like it.
Showed up the next day!
Perfect packaging, as advertised, it was the best deal of my cyber monday.
However it boots and resume quickly.
Stay away from this model, and HP in general until they get their crap together.
The laptop was actually for my daughter who was in college and because they shipped it expressed, she got it on Monday with very little delay.
Its service after the sale that is hard to come by these days.
com/gp/offer-listing/B0090LNHEG/ref=dp_olp_new?ie=UTF8&condition;=new
The software loaded, however, brings everything to a crawl.
My recommendation is to take your new laptop to the nearest IT geek, and ask them to reinstall the operating system before use.
It takes a while to get used to Windows 8 - will be better when the start buttonis returned in the new upgrade.
HP no longer uses parts that will last for a person that uses a computer for more then internet use and at that not on a daily basis.
Stick with dell or lenovo until hp decides to produce reliable products again.
The key pads are cheap and break immediatly after operating.
Store more files with the large hard drive on the HP Pavilion g6-2210us Notebook PC.2.
Count on the HP TrueVision HD Webcam when only a face-to-face conversation will do.
Also get automatic air conditioning for your HP Pavilion g6 laptop and protect data from accidental bumps and bruises using exclusive HP innovations.
The computer was securely shipped and comes with step by step instructions for set up.
Bought the activation code and Office installed with no problems.
It is quick to start, handles multiple tasks quickly and efficiently.
The only question mark is the Windows 8 software.
Her previous computer was an XP so the Windows 8 Pro operating system has been an adjustment but she likes it ok.
as a coupon for $25 would work with my order to apologize  for their  very poor  customer service from the HP company.
I already told  one friend not to replace her older HP with the new ones as they have become an unreliable product.
Then they changed  changed  their  mind and decided not to  credit my account.
was extremely unhappy with windows 8.
Shipped quickly and packaged well.
workes great with windows 8. took some getting used to with the new software, but still awesome.
In other words, unless you want to pay more money, you are unable to do basic home office tasks - like type a document or open and document that is sent to you.
If needed, you must buy Microsoft Office (Not included).
After 3 hours on the telephone with HP and Microsoft trying to activate Windows 8 I threw in the towel and returned the computer.
It worked well for 6 months then the keyboard broke and dell would not fix it because it was bought by a guy in CHicago who apparently sold it refurbished
From day one we had problem with the download speed, we did speed test and got only .07 mbps, then try two other old laptops at the same spot and got about 9.0 mbps.
We got several computer geeks in the family look at it they all believe the wireless card and etc.
We are in process of taking them to Court.
No information; no instructions; no operating system disk!a piece of junk!
No information; no instructions; no operating system disk!a piece of junk!
No information; no instructions; no operating system disk!a piece of junk!
No information; no instructions; no operating system disk!
The Toshiba arrived from Amazon with easy to comprehend instructions.
The new Windows 8 took some time to comprehend.
However, once learned, it became easy to navigate.
One drawback, however, is the keyboard.
A person must hit the keys directly in the middle; hitting the keys on the sides will not register letters when writing.
I was very happy with this computer... Until the hard drive failed after only 90 days!
WiDi will only operate with the Intel HD graphics (or with NVDIA optimus).
Nvidia Optimus allows an automatic switching between a dedicated and integrated graphic card depending on the demand.3) It is not mentionned but there is one pair of 3D Vision glasses in the package ("This package contains the Toshiba Satellite X875-Q7390 notebook PC, rechargeable lithium-ion battery, AC adapter, and operating instructions")
I received a call from their shipping department just to verify some details but they were super helpful making sure there would be someone to sign off on the package.
Good thing also is that Fedex that a feature were for $5, they guarantee an afternoon delivery (5pm-7pm).
To shut down is a pain in the ass but I hear that they are going to put that back in on the next build.
After 3 days of working and loading all the program the power supply got busted.
Toshiba includes their own desktop management software, which helps Windows 8 act more like the older ones.
It is easy to find the "Computer" and other system control interfaces we are used to seeing.
AMZN has always been great with returns and customer service.
This hard drive came in my Toshiba laptop and has died after 1 year of use.
Difficulty accessing network; problems with the cursor disappearing.
Great Laptop, everything was included as advertised.
Quick to start, light.
Windows 8 is a horrible product; unfortunately, some guilt by association.
connections-USB, HDMI, etc (see the tech specs).
Windows 8 sucks and Secure boot in BIOS setting will prevent installation of most of earlier and alternate operating systems including 7, in the BIOS it offers to disable the secure boot however it still rejects the Win7 installation CDs.
Few months later, system became irrecorevable and I did the recovery.
txt file and copy it to the USB drive in order to get your windows professional to install correctly.
The request came at the perfect destination.
the machine was directly shipped to the campus.
One must permanently disable it in order to be able to write documents.
The Bad - Keyboard, Windows 8 (aka fisher price OS) and the touchpad.
At the beginning I was very dissapointed because I was not able to virtualize some windows server 2008 R2 in this Sony Vaio because of some SONY restrictions, but after reading some blogs on the internet I came to know that I could update the BIOS and then edit it in order to enable virtualization.
Windows 8 takes some getting used to.
When the product arrived, I found that it came only with a power cord and laptop itself (none of the documentation was included and it came in a brown box).
The laptop did not have NVIDIA GeForce graphics card, instead it had a Intel HD Graphics 4000 (someone had replaced it), and the battery life is half of what is advertised.
Apparently, Amazon Warehouse Deals Used-Like New computers are used for at least 6 months - maybe more.
It appears that Amazon Warehouse Deals does not have any quality control measures in place when it comes to checking used products before placing them on sale.
Back to Amazon.
This is the perfect laptop, for a girl.
This one had a motherboard issue after five days and just stopped completely.
Although I had bought the product on Amazon, the sony store people in san jose were very nice and fixed it within a day.
However, my intended purpose was to drive an external monitor and to switch to Portrait view.
I contacted Sony online for help to resolve the problem and went through seven different technicians over two days to try and resolve the problem without success.
Finally, I was connected to one of their experts (the eighth person) who verified that the problem does exist on three different Sony Vaio S series models that he had on hand that use the internal Intel HD4000 Graphics card.
However, I decided to return it since I was up against a time limit for returns.
:(
The memory were reduced in favour of a full SSD drive (256 GB), aiming a very fast computer, and it is not evident.
I bought this directly from sony store for a lower price with top-of-the-line configuration (i7, 8GB, 256GB).
startup is amazing, as advertised 2 seconds.
I bought it for my wife, and she is "picky" with her computers.... well,  she loves it too!
Windows 8 has some getting used to.
Then a few weeks later, I got the "No operating system found" error.
On taking to the service center, i was told that now the daughter board was gone.
Their attempt to make a tablet based operating system is horrible.
When I ordered the system from Dell, the tech staff were friendly and the salespeople were knowledgeable.
I called tech support and then sales six months after I bought the machine to purchase more memory for it.
IN THE FIRST DAY.
THEN AFTER A WEEK.
:(
After searching and reviewing gaming laptops for a few weeks.
Bottom line is this is a gaming windows mac book.
Regardless of whether the box was opened or not PC Parts Depot charges a 20% restocking fee.
Maybe the 20% restocking fee is an industry standard that is fair to the seller to cover for any losses resulting from opened items.
Also installed a power management software.
:-).
Notes: I find that it helps to set the touchpad to "disable while typing", which deactivates the pad for a set amount of time after a key stroke (default is 2 seconds).
Truth be told, I waited for Samsung Chromebook for months, but having got tired I miraculously found Asus X201e at B&H.
The systems starts and shuts down in seconds.
This replaces my beloved Dell D410, which survived many drops and crashes over 8 years, but whose screen was recently cracked by an airport baggage handler.
I am, however, having trouble with getting the wifi to work reliably.
Catastrophic hard drive failure, with loss of all data, after 30 days of use with no physical damage to the computer -- no drops, no spills.
Out of nowhere, the laptop will decide to disconnect from connection.
Keyboard is little squeezed up, Some keys ( Back Space and Tab) are lost occasionally .
Has met the expectations.
The new laptop arrived five days ago.
Great size for on the go & very helpful for learning Windows 8.
I purchased this for a friend and she loves it.
My daughter has all she needed now with this computer.
She is ready to go back to school.
Very pleased..... seller was fast,,,,,,,,,:) As described.
Will take on vacation and look forward to using.
I recommend this computer to any student or professional wanting to keep in touch and stay on task with the hectic events of an advancing technology based society.
This laptop was a present for my daughter after a while, the glass had a crack.
My daughter sent it to ASUS for repair more than a month ago and have had great difficult coordinating for the repair because the repair center does not have a telephone, but a chat and email system.
They keep asking for paperwork and reporting that the equipment is sitting in the shop in the meantime.
:-(
Now both refuse to install windows 8.1.
not like  UPS/FEDEX/USPS people who usually pressed the door bell and left the items next to the front door, the delivery person from Prestige simply threw the whole box to the cement porch from several feet away, even after he saw we had opened the front door for him
I chose asus for the accidental damage protection and of course I had to use it.
I spend 15 minutes explaining my story, answering all of their security questions only to be placed on hold and then told that no one has an idea why my computer has not been fixed yet to call back in 2 days.
DO NOT ORDER FROM ASUS.
I picked this up on sale at an outside site for $379 which was an amazing price for what you get.
I received mine as a gift from an online store (not Amazon) and was so excited when it arrived.
In order to try and avoid the shipping cost, I decided to enlist the help of my computer savvy son who discovered that McAfee Anti-Virus causes the "blue screen of death" on some computers because it has problems with Windows 8.
He uninstalled the pre-installed McAfee and the problem never occurred again.
(The store I received my computer from did find a contact from ASUS that I was able to talk to.
After a couple of conversations I heard back from them and they offered to send me a shipping label, but the problem was fixed by then.
While attempting to open the back of the case, it was discovered that the screws on the back of the unit are unevenly torqued where some are very easy to undo but some are tough to get out.
It had turned out that one MUST touch the laptop else where in order for the touch pad to function reliably.
This mitigates the possibility of using the laptop while standing up (browsing through recipes while cooking... etc).
I plan to upgrade to SSD eventually and have a dual band wifi card on the way.
After installed Bluetooth will not pair.
I did fix however!Ubuntu works flawlessly as soon as you boot with the new Intel card, Win 8 is a real headache as all Windows systems are.
Uninstall the Atheros wireless and Bluetooth selecting remove driver, do this in device manager.
After installing new drivers, look in "services", disable Zatheros service.
The hardest Atheros BT driver to find was in "system devices" With this driver left enabled BT works but only after a hard reboot, disable it and BT will work much better.
The reason Intel BT driver fails is due to the fight between Atheros leftover drivers.
You will need to somehow connect the new SSD drive via USB to do the clone.
However, after experiencing nothing but frustration and not getting ANY WORK at all done in three days, I am sending this back.
Microsoft does not offer another download site either; incredibly, MS support says download  the #KB 2871389 update, then RESET the store: from RUN, type in wsreset.
and Windows 8.1 should appear in the Windows App Store.
This worked (???).
Last thoughts: Back to TOSHIBA!
Almost a bigger concern is Asus has had almost two months to respond to my requests for assistance and they dont.
Have been going to many meetings and needed to keep meeting notes organized.
:)
Was looking for a small touchscreen laptop for traveling.
Bought an external CR Rom Reader/Writer ( ASUS so there was no conflicts) Enough hard drive to load QuickBooks & Office.
I bought this laptop in October but the "M" key came broken off.
Please try the following method:a. go to control panel ,open the network and internet ->network connections->networkand sharing center->change adapter settingsb.
hit "configure" ,switch to Power management,disable "Allow the computer to turn off this device to save power.
If still ,3. please right click "Computer" ->manager,>scroll out "services andapplications"->"services"Find the "WLAN Autoconfig" and Network Location Awareness ,right click it and hitproperties .
Set the startup type to "automatic".
com just for $384.99!Newegg.
com is an official seller of Asus.
Regular price @ newegg.
computer is only two months old and keeps freezing up.
Although there is a fix according to some reviews (buy the screen protector for $22).
My son did alot of research and found this laptop to be the best for the price.
I needed a lighter travel computer, not wanting to spend the money on an a Mac Airbook.
This one was for my 12 year old son(pink so it would be harder for him to lose).
(owned for 3 months)
After just five months of owning this the hard drive failed.
It was under warranty, and since the damage was on their part not mine they covered the repair, so I sent it in (which costed money) and they replaced it.
Now not even a month after getting it fixed the brand new hard drive is broken again!
I bought one of these this past weekend from a Microsoft retail store (where it is $499) and could not be happier so far.
Good price, however hard drive failed after 6 months and was replaced under warranty.
Problems from the beginning!
Finally, after using for a few days 6 months later to watch shows on Netflix, it does not take a charge or turn on.
After plug and unplug from wall about 5 times it starts charging.
this is a gift to my wife who had a 15.4inch toshiba for a couple years.
now,she can get about 4 hrs per charge.
When she unwrapped it, she said it was "perfect".
As of yesterday 1 week later she is still getting used to it.
strongly recommened for NON gamer users.
Software crashed while trying to update.
She is a light user, email, browsing, some minor Office documents etc.
For a casual user who wants a portable laptop with a touchscreen, this is the way to go.
I got in contact with them and returned the laptop and got a full refund.
However, on the evening of the 3rd day of use it went to the BIOS page and refused to move despite tech support intervention.
Purchased as a graduation gift for my daughter.
Not only does the it meet all the functional needs for her as a new college student, it is lightweight and CUTE!
High price-quality ratio for a $490 laptop and Win 8 system.
Love the new computer.
opened the box and tried to register warranty.
Product was shipped from my account, DIRECTLY to her home.... with FREE SHIPPING !
Great computer for college students !
It is perfect for my daughter attending college.
the laptop crashed after 6 months of purchase.
A must buy
A MUST!!!!
A friend helped me select this product for doing an online class for school.
I bought this laptop for my girlfriend to use for college because her other one crashed.
im planning on getting for my self!
30 days in the service center now.
This computer came broken.
About 2 weeks after she got it... she dropped it!
ASUS has an accidental insurance on this computer.
Initially, this thing turned out to be quite a nightmare having frequent issues such as cursors jumping all over the place (seems to be quite common), programs locking up, key board not responding etc.
After updating to Windows 8.1 and some other software upgrades the machine runs well without any instances in over a month.
Im going back to HP and hopefully can find a Windows 7 machine.
Having some problems getting used to it after coming from a Dell.
Easy to type on, boots up nicely, no restarts as of yet (owned it about 3 weeks to a month now).
Pink X202E plus pink wireless mouse from logitech plus pink carry cover from cosmos for 12 yo daughter for school use.
School use consists almost entirely of writing documents with google docs and learning how to collaborate with other students/teacher using gmail/docs inside a walled-off google universe.
In fact the WiFi and harddrive are about the only parts that can be upgraded in this laptop (the ram is soldered in).
Battery stopped charging after 1 month.
Had to send it back for repair.
the laptop is as described - small and light and has been fun to use and has lived up to expectations
A few months later, we bought one for him and then one for our daughter in high school.
I bought the device for my daughter who is entering college and when she received it the touch mouse did not work so I returned it.
I contacted ASUS support and they sent directions to upgrade the bios and touchpad drivers.
When my about-to-graduate-college-senior son reluctantly reported that his 4-year old laptop was dead, I immediately jumped in my truck and gave him the MBP (Happy Graduation!).
Research results were $1,200+ for an i7 laptop with detachable keyboard; or, $399 for i3 laptop with the guts in the keyboard section (and therefore not detachable).
About the ASUS X202E: Fast enough, Construction seemingly equal to expensive Mac.
However for everday e-mail, web browsing, and music it does a very nice job.
My wife has set it up for she is happy with my purchase :)
I was originally planning to buy a Dell Latitude 10 Windows 8 tablet, but it has been delayed due to driver issues.
What a great computer to travel with.
Battery power lasts forever.
had to undergo some steps to personalize pc.
The battery life is in the 3-4 hour range when using for word processing and internet searches.
Bottom line; GREAT computer except for the operating system.
The computer crashes constantly.
I bpught it and the first couple days perfect but then i started discovering all the problems and i returned it.
Being a college student and needing the type papers, work in bigger groups, share documents easily, listen to music, brows the web, this computer can handle these tasks with ease.
Searching the internet revealed dozens of posts from people reporting the same problem with other ASUS models.
IE repeatedly crashed as soon as I connected to Wifi.
It is now over month and I continue to have trouble free usage and as I travel it is used in many different environments without missing a beat.
After the replacement, it is quiet, fast, and it opens up quickly.
EDIT: Dead after 3 months, ASUS fixed it quickly.
As others noted, Windows 8 takes some getting used to.
I was charged a 20% restocking fee ($120.00) even though I returned it the next day I received it.
Great price, well packaged and shipped quickly!!
First you can call Asus and they will walk you through uninstalling the wireless driver and then re-installing it.
I finally found a solution to the problem by purchasing a MediaLink Wireless N Adapter.
I ordered this item on Feb 6th, 2014, waited about ten days to get this on my hand.
( Got this for $608 )Touch-screen makes my life way easy.
I sent it back to ASUS to be fixed (and I had to pay the shipping fee!).
The laptop will drop connections; connectivity slows-down and it randomly reboots when resuming after a sleep.
My wife was looking to upgrade her HP laptop and went to best buy and costco to check out the latest in ultrabooks.
At best buy she was pleasantly surprised to find out how easy it was to surf the web using the touchscreen on the laptop.
We are true believers in the touchscreen for ultrabooks now.
She has not gone back to the desktop browser since she got this laptop.
I decided to take the chance and buy it after further research and long story short, it does.
If you are using it at home and dont need routine security on it, turn off the "require password on wake-up" and it comes to life even faster and is ready to go.
The huge 500GB usable total storage is split into two partitions, one for programs, and one for storage.
And, it only has a single band (2.4 GHz) Wi-Fi.
At first I was annoyed, but then I found a combined dual-band Wi-Fi & Bluetooth internal card on Amazon for only $22!
I ordered it, installed it in about 5 mins and now I have dual band Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.
Total cost $721.
The only thing she comes back with is how cool the little light-up Apple is on her lid.
My wife primarily uses it on the couch for business research and  shopping
Got 2 VivoBook for my daughters (15 & 11) and so far they love them.
Sent it back, got a replacement with the exact same problem.
Love bragging in front of my mac book friends.
Other reviewers have purchased an external wifi adapter.
Use Easeus free partition manager to fix.
Find the mouse does not always respond  when using mouse and touch together.
I work a full time job and am attending an online school, so I wanted a portable computer that can do all the things required of school, research and presentations.
I am a graduate student and would recommend this to other students (undergraduate and graduate).
I purchased this computer and have had to send it back three times (in less than two months) for repair of the same problem with the touchpad.
So they have the computer for a week... how is that a priority repair?
I bought this laptop for my son who is heading to college this fall.
Touchscreen windows 8, fast and trouble free.
Best buy for the money.
Quick booting with ssd drive.
Had initial hiccup with HD streaming videos being choppy (on both Netflix and YouTube).
she does alot of graphics embedded file conversions which were taking forever with old hp i3.
as I mentioned because of the deficiencies I mentioned above, I decided to go with another model (q500a-bhi7t05) and that turned out to be nothing but headache combined with bad customer service.
For repairs Asus defers to BestBuy, and BestBuy says the manufacturer has to repair the computer  - which I agree ...
The laptop lost connectivity to internet after 10 months of use.
with their orientation i reseted the computer,it didnot work and after i did it again and the same results then i decided to return to amazon .
It works great with my Asus DVD external drive, my Asus Transformer tablet and my Samsung Galaxy S 3 Cell Phone.
The touch screen is randomly, reckless, imposing unwanted windows and sending the pointer into hiding and she hates Windows 8.
The very first day it shutdown for no reason (full batteries)and with no warning.
Windows 8, takes a while to get used to.
(cough.. cough.. Toshiba/Dell)He loved the touch screen.
Was cheaper that what was on the notebook stated for the package price.
Now, I have to send the computer back to Asus to get a new wireless card.
I have to pay for the shipment, and who knows when I will get it back.
But the laptop price will probably increase $500 - $700 to get the "High End" version.
We first tried to buy the Samsung Series 5 13.3" Ultrabook.
When I received it back, the bluetooth (which is an advertised feature of the computer) did not work.
Purchased 2 of these laptops (14") for my grand daughters graduation present to be used in college.
Purchased them based on my research of the quality of ASUS plus the fact that a 1 yr protection waranty is includedfor accidental damages.. Great size for students due to size and weight.
No problems with these ... in last 2 months.
Ull have to settle for a ridiculously overpriced (old stock?)
asus drive - a 256gb retails for $400!!
Im through with this rubbish - Asus are an excellent brand with quality machines, I hope the R&D;  dumb a$$ who authorized this stupid move is fired and banned from ever making executive decisions.
letters and nos# extremely visible.
Difficult to get to the accessories and tools in Windows 8.
Happy with this laptop after two months of use.
who cares about the APPS that they put to this package.
cheap plastic body, and horrible harddrive which died in 2 months.... do not buy this computer
We sent the laptop back, hoping to have a working laptop by school again, but they told us that it would cost $325 to fix it.
She is very happy with this new equipment
They want to sell their product not satisfy the customer.
SALVO ALGUNOS PROBLEMAS TCNICOS CON LA TDC (NUMERO DEL PLSTICO REGISTRADO VENCIDO, A LA HORA DE CANCELAR EL ENVO).
Unable to download the free Windows 8 for Dummies.
Sending him off with a good computer.
had to purchase microsoft proogram.
Bought it for a ten year old boy who has had no problems using it.
all that needs to be said is once you have removed all the toshiba bloatware and the worthless norton security crap it plays games such as deus ex human evolution, bioshock, bioshock 2, dead island, call of duty black ops II, darksiders II, saints row the third, orcs must die, assassins creed III, and borderlands 2 with the highest settings it stays cool and has no lag in any of them
Recommended for those that use their computers for light-to-medium processing activities (this is not a gaming machine).
One thing to note: the function keys are not independent.
It quit working after 2 days and had to be replaced.
After 6 months of use, the screen developed a crack in the LCD crystals starting in the lower left hand corner.
I contacted Toshiba regarding repair under warranty and they refused to provide repairs, claiming that the problem was due to our negligence.
I try to change the operating system and found out Microsoft have lock this computer on Windows 8.
Windows 8 in my experience (2 months) hasnt been funI will try my hardest to get used to it, but for now, it sucks.
Got this computer in the afternoon and worked 6 hours straight trying to establish a stable connection to the internet.
Called Toshiba customer service who wanted $100 payed in advance for a one-time consult for this hours old new computer.
Called another company who did provide some consultation, but after more hours trying to establish the link, I am returning it for a different computer.
Watch the Windows 8 software, as that is the only differnce in this new computer.
We bought this laptop and tried it out for about an hour before deciding to return it.
The touchpad is a crime against humanity, impossible to use smoothly.
Christmas morning arrived and he was so excited.
However upon boot up, we disappointedly discovered that the laptop operating system of Windows 8 was never finished before it arrived to me and there were NO DISKS in the box to allow us to reinstall the operatling system.
What a let down on Christmas morning.
We called Dell Customer Service and after an hour of trying this and trying that, they finally agreed to overnight the discs that should have been in the box to begin with.
All in all, my son LOVES his new computer and loves the look and feel of this product.
It was just such a let down on Christmas morning not to have it functioning right out of the box and having to wait 2 days to get it up and running again.
The keyboard is about a 7.5 on the scale of 1  10 (10 being the best).
I sincerely hope Dell will be able to cure problem 2 above and we will just learn to live problem 1.
However, I called Dell support team.
A very talented and knowledgeable technician came out from Worldwide Services, Bob Rudden..
Dell needs to fire the idiot engineer in charge of designing the thermal systems for these laptops.
The range as the story goes on this unit is terrible.
Currently, I have this positioned right next to my 2008 Inspiron ten feet from my router and am running tests at speedtest.
As a college student I have many papers to write and this is very frustrating when im trying to complete a thought and I have to stop and move the cursor.
The keyboard however seems a little cheaply made and at least one of the keys was sticking after about a month of use.
After a lot of research in stores, on line and asking friends, I ended up with another Inspirion.
He was the only one in the household without one.
A friend showed him all the ammenities it has.
This computer was bought  as a gift for a family member, he seems to be enjoying it and is learning more everyday.
I bought this for my 11 yr old son as a Christmas & B-day gift (B-day is in January).
However, they have a defect in the sensitivity of the mouse.
The same thing started again after about 2 weeks.
The computer works ok but the usb ports are in the wrong place at the side and front,when you have a wireless mouse and printer the cord and stick are always in the way
He loves it except has to get used to using WIndows 8 !
Rep lied or gave wrong info regarding Microsoft site down, so could not help.
But no antivirus license office and must give information to make the purchase of the software along
I received this order today and have the same problem as many other customers: the box is labelled 3910 but the product inside is the model 3520 (not advertised online).
This lap-top boots really fast even with many applications hanged from the start (Skype, drivers, game servers, etc.)
The i5 core processor, the hard disk and the memory allows playing games, be connected to internet and social networks, send to print wireless and access information in an external storage all at the same time with no suffer.
We use them in medical clinics for Physicians and Therapists to create reports using a proprietary program.
The brushed black finish is handsome and does well with fingerprints.
Update: Second one sent was the same, 3910 box, 3520 computer, returned it, and was able to work with customer service for a resolution, but will not be owning this machine.
The computer came well packaged and just in time for her birthday.
Some individuals had problems with this new Windows and other things with this computer.
I had to have the hard drive replaced 2 months into the life of this computer.
Now, 8 months later, the hard drive is failing AGAIN.
I tried explaining to the customer rep, but they have a justification that 3520 is generic model # for 3910.
It is nice and fancy... my boyfriend is in love with it..... now he spends hours in hours with his computer... i guess i get som time off now hahhahahha
Microsoft Windows 8 was pre-installed on the computer.
IT TAKES AWHILE TO LEARN THE WINDOWS 8 SYSTEM.
After I purchased at $530, price got dropped down to $499 and amazon had given my money back as this price drop had happen within 7 days of my purchase.
The App store is awesome
=)
Ill never trust amazon as a seller again!
When it finally rotated once, it would not rotate back to the position needed to operate the machine as a computer.
On December 28, the Dell representative agreed the computer was defective.
He said he would get back to me in 48 hours and let me know if the company would send repair parts or replace the computer, that he needed to check with a manager.
When I did not hear from the company in 48 hours, I called and was told that the managers were off until the 31st and I would be called then.
USB drive is to inconvenient.
Limited memory on 128 GB SSD drive after system software is installed.
she said always disconnected several times per day.
WIN8 is way prematurely released to the users.
Now that i have purchased this product and i am experiencing some problems with the laptop i am not getting any assistance from tech support, everybody has conveniently disappeared.
We got this for our son for college.
I bought this laptop to update mys wife computer that ran in Windows vista.
Horrible directions came with computer.
Just plug in and get started.
Easy to set up and the notebook was sold at a reasonable price.
there area also speakers on the front above keyboard.
This is actually my second Samsung notebook I have purchased in the last 6 months (I also own a series 7 NP700z5b-s01ub), and I love them both.
The battery will game for about one hour and with a laptop cooler the temps still get to around fifty-nine degrees (max).
The one major problem with Windows 8 and this machine is that the clock will not stay set properly (Windows 8 bug when running multiple hardware configurations).
The windows experience is as follows: cpu:7.9, Memory: 7.9  3D Graphics:6.9 Hard drive 5.9.
Has slot for internal SSD also in addition to hard drive.
This laptop is capable of running Battlefield 3, Arma 3 and various other games at high to even ultra on some games.
He scoured the internet for months collecting details and looking at stats to make the correct choice.
He is very happy with his choice!
I thought i was going to regret my decision, after i got the first MSI let it sit over night and tried to boot it next day and all i could get was an error code.
I will say this, two things i do not like is 1: no owners manuals and 2: customer service is only open to pacific time zone, ( i live on the east coast and there is a 4 hour difference)i get up at 4 am and have to wait 8 hours for them to even open.
This computer has 2 HD bays, but only comes with one HD 750GB.
I contacted MSI they responded in about 6 hours and sent me a link for the SCM (system control manager).
Boot after pressing the on button 9-10 seconds.
Update 04/09/2013I got the laptop back.
Update 08/05/2013I went on a month trip to Morocco.
you click on it and you choose what you want to do (keep speakers on or turn them off and listen to the headsets only).
!- multimedia keys are great- Blu Ray drive- 1080p screen (matte)-all others epic internalsCons:- Im left handed and the heating vent is on the left side which can be irritating when gaming- fan is very loud when turned on however it does keep the laptop cool
I tried many ways to fix this problem(reinstall drivers, use a USB wireless adapter, change some wireless setting)  and none of them can solve this issue.
They did not charge sales tax and offered a 2% cash discount, free shipping, and a free copy of Borderlands II.
The updated Windows 8 task manager is very helpful in monitoring the system resources.
The main things that come pre-loaded are: CyberLink PowerDVD, the keyboard back-lighting program, Qualcomm Atheros Killer Network Manager, and the program that runs the touch-sensitive buttons on the top of the keyboard.
One of the key things I learned was to look at the similar names on the graphics cards.
I was later told the bios has many "features" that causes they.
It has all the features he was looking for and will help with establishing his career.
Intense games, large data sets, etc.
Only real complaint other than bloatware is the left control key which fell off immediately upon first use and took me days to find a way to reattach (although somewhat imperfectly) and continues to feel fragile.
He loves and and we enjoy just watching him work on the keyboard that has all different color shades running into each other!
You can watch the company intro video on you-tube as they explain the honeycomb base design.
I also love the cables and ports on the back side, leaving the desk free.
But fashion rules supreme.
Respond was very late.
It is quick and smooth with windows 8 new interface and Flys on the Internet.
Can set keyboard to only light when touched, which helps with the battery life, love it!
We took delivery on a Friday three days after purchase.
learning to love my new laptop.
ended up paying an extra $100 for one from someone else and praying that she gets it.
He had a hard drive issue (or what I suspect to be a hard drive issue) after a few days of using the laptop.
He was going to void the warranty and open the machine to get the drive replaced but I decided to look at it before he did that as a last resort.
I purchased a Vaio (specific model number no longer sold) a few months ago.
Each time they returned it, it still had the same problem.
Only once out of three times did they get the shipping box, repair process, or return process done in the turnaround time they promised.
At no point did they actually repair the laptop!After receiving the still defective laptop back for the third time, I called their service center in Laredo Texas and asked what they had done to repair it.
Out of the 2 months I spent dealing with Sony, this was one of the few honest statements they made: My laptop is still as useless as the day I first called their tech support.
Otherwise, Sony will take it from you for 12-20 days (not the 10 they promise) and then return it to you still broken -- 3 times in a row.
I received the computer quickly and everything was in good working order.
Love shopping through Amazon
When I ran into an issue with the computer I was able to contact support and they solved the issue within moments.
Also, for anyone who does not want to purchase Microsoft Office products due to their inflated price, there is no longer a Microsoft works already installed on the computer as was with most previous Microsoft OS products.
Poor speakers for audio, use headphones or external speakers (not very expensive)
Windows 8 will take some getting used to but he will soon have it mastered.
I spent weeks (not hours) trying to get it fixed under warranty.
Mouse always locks up and the operating system is horrible to use.
would spend the extra money and by a mac next time.
My 12 year old son love it... Next purchase will be sony for sure...
Purchased as a gift, after having Sony work on it 3 times in home, returning it twice for repair, hours and hours of frustration, I was finally given a refund
The list of must haves - Intel i5, good reputation, number pad, 15.6", backlit keyboard, Windows 8, light weight.
I contacted Microsoft and after 2 hours on the phone with them they could not make the software work, then contacted Sony and they even had difficulty setting up the software.
Damaged from the beginning.
Touchpad did not work & Sony Techs were rude & unable to help.
Had to return.
To the lovers of the computers they are going to go super with her.
Then this past week (a few days past the warranty) it crashed.
This is my 4th (and newest) laptop and the other 3 are all still working.
This one turned out to be a lemon:(
It arrived within days of ordering and was in great condition.
System did hand a couple of time in the Windows 8 Mode.
:)
It was for my sister in law.
She loved it and now she is very grateful for the advice.
After 5 days a windows 8 update caused the compter to become unresponsive after the login screen.
windows 8 needs to go where they sent vista
The " Entertainment" suite of applications, Sony Vegas, etc., are not on the machine as promised.
I am unable to boot to a disk clone utility and Sony help is of less value than asking the neighbors cat.
Sony and every other computer manufacturer needs to put windows and the necessary drivers only on a new machine and keep their own software off.
They only screw up the machines.
( I have it 80% of thime over the 3 GHZ)Recently made a upgrade, replacing the main HD whit a new SDD (256 MB SEAGATE) and let the original HD in a especial tray, in place of the DVD drive, I also buy a case to make the DVD drive external, so I can use it with an USB cable.
We bought it for the kids (11,9,8) for surfing web and email.
Just after Sony fixed it my crazy roommate took an axe to it.
Within a few months the keyboard failed, it took Sony four weeks to fix it and return it to the store.
It may take another four weeks to complete the swap!
The first time was withing three months of purchase and it was still under warranty.
This solved the problem, but only for another 12 months.
I finally figured out where everything was and began updating software.
It broke on the first week.
excelent the Sony VAIO E15 Series SVE15122CXW 15.5-Inch Laptop (White)  very very very very very very goood and like new
I visited the store in Manhattan, NYC where I had the worst experience in my life.
to have the unit repaired.
Further I called their customer service department and they countless repeated that the unit was out of warranty even though they knew that it was only days since it was out of warranty.
Any other company would place the unit back under warranty and repair it but not Sony.
I had this computer for three days and the screen went black, amazon will not refund your money, major hassel to send back to sony, i was charged 200 bucks to repair a new computer!
Warrenty wouldnt cover it, they claimed it had been damanged which was untrue!
Sony want stand behind there priducts!
The packaging was not protected well.
Had trouble with WiFi reception.
I had been warned prior to purchasing, but I needed a laptop quick when mine decided to die on me right before the semester at school ended.
Computer stopped working after 3 weeks.
They offered to send a Sony repairman, since it was under warranty.
Three days later, Sony cancelled the visit of the repairman.
They demanded I send in my laptop instead for ten days.
The estimated repair charge (covers labor, parts and shipping) is $1404.31 + applicable sales tax.
It took me (and the SONY support) forever to even realize it, but finally we found: "For models compliant with the IEEE 802.11b/g/n standard, only 2.4 GHz band can be used."
However the built of this Sony Vaio laptop is perfect.
The battery takes like 5 hours to get fully charged ( from totally discharged status).
3 days after i decided to return pc.
East to travel with and sturdy, yet light enough.
Sony removed the ability to run Hyper-V manager from BIOS.
He loves it as it allows him to use the internet at his cabin.
It took a bit of tech support to get the 2 years of included T-Mobile service to be recognized (validated) and up and running.
100% improvement over his Intel Atom based laptop (which he promptly gave away)...
T-mobile stated taht promotional was only for units sold directly from HP or Target.
the app use for a netbook is a great feature from netflix to simple banking.
(SIM card is located in the battery compartment).
this took me a while to figure out, but in the end i found a trial software that works with windows 8 since this windows uses GPT uefi bootup, other windows use the MBR(master boot record.
All parts and accesories I purchased for this netbook:Crucial m4 128GB 2.5-Inch Solid State Drive SATA 6Gb/s with Data Transfer Kit CT128M4SSD2CCAssdCorsair Vengeance 8GB (2x4GB)  DDR3 1600 MHz (PC3 12800) Laptop  Memory (CMSX8GX3M2A1600C9)ramBUFFALO 8x USB 2.0 Portable DVD Writer - DVSM-PC58U2VBexternal dvd/cd/rw/rrooCASE Neoprene Netbook Sleeve Case Cover for Acer Aspire One AO522-BZ897 10.1-Inch HD Netbook Diamond Black (Invisible Zipper Triple-Pocket - Black)sleeveMicrosoft Arc Touch Mouse - Year of the DragonI had to pick this one because all the mouses i had did not work with windows 8. enjoy this netbok it is worth it.
I realize it takes time to learn any new operating system, but they took everything good and hid it behind layers of stupid "integrated" pages.
I took off a star because I am SO ANNOYED with the "2 year free T-Mobile" internet program that comes with this computer.
Purchased a previous iteration of the product in Singapore less then a year ago and the left hinge has cracked on the inside causing the LCD screen casing to unhinge from the rest of the unit.
The unit was in-warranty and multiple calls to HP support in the U. S. led to nowhere and culminated in HP refusing to provide any remediation other than my having to ship the unit to HP,Singapore.
This unit supposedly comes with an international warranty with global coverage.
(You have to supply your own install package of Windows to do this).
She flies on it every day.
We also use it for my grandson (18 months) to learn on without having to constantly worry about him spilling something or knocking the computer over.
My son loved his needs he uses it all the time for school .
I called dell 3 times already they finally send someone to change the wireless card, the technician came, but without the card... he has to come back again... That may be that I am unlucky and got the wrong one, but I read other review about trouble with the wireless capability of this PC.
UPDATE : DELL Send a tecnician to my place, ;ore than 2 weeks after I reported the issue ( supposed to have a Next business day on site warranty included with this XPS).
This computer can change from playing a game (ex: Vegas 2 ) to skype or its desktop as if it was changing normal windows.
Dell installed the Windows 7 toolbar and am now able to work with comfort on the machine.
When I searched up "Dell black screen on start up" I discovered that this is a known issue with this model of Dell laptops.
I also had to increase the virtual memory and shut down many services from auto starting at first boot.
Got a great deal on this computer for my daughter and she LOVES it!
The computer has awesome componets and runs amazingly once Windows 7 was installed.
A great computer for kids use in school.
A great device for the money.
Amazing laptop for children since virus protection is already built in.
As of right now, the Chromebook has been a dream.
:-)
Best laptop out there for under 300 $ I hope samsung comes out with another one soon.
Bought for our son for school use.
Now mom wants one!
Simple, clean, web based pc, yet love the google options for letter and numbers use as I can start work while out on this PC that fits on backpack and purse and always email to Mac to open and continue doc.
Bought it for my son for Christmas, he loves it!
Very user friendly according to him.
She was thrilled when she opened it & still is.
she loves it the only complaint (at first) no netflix support but that was fixed.
Bought this laptop for my 8 year old daughter and it is perfect for her.
She needed a simple inexpensive laptop to do her school websites, and this is just what we wanted.
Came as ordered and fast delivery.
Dont know how to transfer files from phone and would like to know how to hook up internet in my house.
This model is light weight, travels well, and starts up fast!
Data and programs are on the cloud, so can be accessed by login from any computer.
also like watching tv on it at night in bed while going to sleep.
just set it in the night stand,
Easy to use, powers on and off super fast.
Was perfect for traveling.
Great size, light weight, enables daughter to access web sites and applications used by her teachers.
She is allowed to use it in the classroom for note taking, completing homework.
Same operating system as her phone for continuity of user interfaces.
Very basic computer but is perfect for taking notes and carrying around campus.
Easy to to get up and running, my 15 year old daughter had it configured and working in no time.
She says "she loves it".
Got it for my son, he loves it for school work.
She loves and finds it easy to use.
Not as versatile as a Windows or MAC,  butserves its purpose for someone who just wants to surf the web or emailyour friends.
Google hit the ball out of the park with he laptop and the chrome operating system.
on her old dell desktop she would need help every other day due to issues.
Great computer but after only 2 months the power cord broke.. NOT COOL.
Great for someone who wants to just use the internet and pay bills.
my mom i a teacher and all of her students use them in school.
My kids love the voice recognition searches.
Bought it for my 13 yr old daughter and she loves it.
Perfect for my high school son!
She has many cases and this one is still on her phone!
Even figuring out how to get the free 100 Gb storage is a hastle
The only thing one MUST obtain is an external hard drive to store file, docs, movies, etc.
boots up quickly.
He was spending time to get to know everything about it.
no maintenance no heat no fan no wires no worries.
The Samsung on the back.
"Untitled" is the new name.
Lastly ,The Acer set up quickly on her ATT wifi, I had to call comcast help desk to get the Samsung to work.
She loves it and uses it alot!!!
She is starting 4th grade this fall and wants something bigger but there is nothing wrong with this bag.
She has used it for school, hiking, travel and overnights.
It arrived quickly via Amazon Prime.
Quick on/off, great apps to choose from (free) Only issue I have is the small screen.....
I bought this Samsung Chromebook to stay online during my one year South American travel.
They have been using them for 6 months and are very pleased with them.
Ideal for students.
It is perfect for shopping, games, e-mail, google searching, and all those little things.
Great for taking notes, research, doing homework, social media,etc.
Does everything she wants and is smaller and easier for her to carry with her.
I use SSH (from app store (and free) and browser daily.
Also several favorite games were also in the app store.
She loves the Kindle but hates going to my basement office to use the desktop.
On the other hand, there are tutorials for these functions and cloud printing is like magic (to me)!The only real down side is requiring internet access, however there are such a growing number of "hot Spots" that this is becoming less of a challenge and you can use Kindle readers off line  and off line Gmail if you get the (free) apps.
When they sign off or turn off the Cromebook ALL their activity is erased.
As far as I know they can not buy anything or even get additional free apps without them being wiped out when their session ends
One was with Webex meetings, currently not supported and the other is with my security cameras.
small and compact fits anywere when traveling.
I will be buying my daughter a chrome book for her birthday.
Perfect for paying bills, surfing and sending emails.
For trips requiring my American phone line via Magic Jack, a bigger computer is needed.
IM VERY SATISFIED WITH THIS PRODUCT MY MOM JUST LOVES IT SHE MUST USE IT AT LEAST TEN HOURS A DAY A VERY GOOD INVESTMENT
Hope that Google fix that soon.
Im learning more and more each day!
The apps are easy to get, but they are all internet based and only available from the Chrome Store (many are free).
I order this laptop for my daughter to use as a secondary computer for College.
I purchased for my son to use in high school.
I purchased the chrome books (2)  for my 13year old daughters.
They love them!
She checks her email, browses the web and watchs videos on youtube.
:(  I bought this for the convenience of having a 2nd computer in order to play games.
I got the free 100 gig of free Google Drive storage for two years.
I plan on giving one as a graduation gift.
So, students can write papers in native Word format, for free.
Buy two or three.
They really are a nice machine for cruising the web and working with cloud based applications.
Think of chromebooks as a commuter car, vs. a semi truck.
They are an inexpensive tool to access the web.
In a second step, drag and drop them to your Google drive (Cloud) to be available for Google environment.
Great buy for 249$ !
I teach computing/Internet to seniors and this is the perfect computer for them.
They do not have to worry about updates or malware/virus protection.
I have found they can pick up most of what they need to know in 2 weeks time without any prior computer knowledge.
That is very handy because we are only in the same location in the winter in South Texas.
Most seniors want Facebook, email, Google search and Kindle for PC.
Great computer for moving from meeting to meeting at work.
Boots fast, connects to the internet quickly, and the battery lasts a long time.
She uses it for her school work and they are all on the Google drive and it is perfect for her.
It is used mainly for emails, ebay and searching the internet.
It could support logins for children younger than 13 yrs (google account required for login)4.
I really like the free airline Gogo Internet passes, and the 100 GB for three years Google Drive storage.
A quick way to get the cursor back is to plug a mouse in a USB port of the device.
Happy with the purchase.
Just what I was looking for, light weight travel computer for the internet & emails.
Have had trouble getting printer setup (google print) - still working on that.
Now we just have a challenge keeping it away from his dad!
Want something simple for daily use on a computer Samsung Chromebook is your answer!
love the very first computer ive owned thats why jacob from san antonio texas have to get one of your own
Love this computer, Daughter loves slim design and weight.
!a must have
My 15 year old got this for Christmas He loves it His cousins were over and they were equally impressed ;we all know how difficult it is to impress teenagers
He is in high school and needs a laptop he can depend on to keep up with, and research his classwork.
The battery life is great (Samsung), it is super light and it turns off and on very fast.
My husband bought one for himself.
My son got this for high school .
His last one died and he researched for this one and he is very happy about it.
He has been using it for several months now.
My son in high school use it for home work.
Wish I had learned on one of these, way back when.
It took her some time to get use to it and how it works; once that happened she was all good with it.
my wife had lots of trouble working with tablets, until she tried the Chromebook.
The internet is main useperfect for her.
My wife wanted this to use for her business.
now my boyfriend carry it everywhere he go.
Now really, a laptop under $300?
choice as a backup computer.
Another thought; at $249, this was a great deal.
starts quickly.
I played around with it a little bit to get it set up for her for Christmas morning.
The software issues, I suspect, are related to Microsoft - Google rivalry and hope are resolved in the near future.
My middle school daughter uses it for school, a great, cheaper alternative to a laptop computer.
plan to get 2 more soon!
He thinks its great and its keeps him online without tying up the family computer.
Purchased for our daughter (26 year old) for Christmas.
After years of using a laptop we bought her in college, she said this is the best Christmas present she ever got!
Quick start up, had a little problem with mouse.
Talk to tech support (english) did a power wash and it works fine now.
After 6 months of use still having problem with mouse, Sent to repair facilllity said they could not find a problem.
Need to send it back a gain.
No waiting / praying for Micro$oft window$ to boot up.
She wanted this for school cause the school uses Chromebook  She loves it.
He had a small one before.
surprisingly it running web URL well.- Youtube ,Netflix (Ran well)- Have run multiple Tabs (runs smooth)- Speaker are good.
So glad to finally escape from Windows.
Teenage son bought this , great value, ideal for web surfing , but is used for homework , using apps.
You can store files on the free for two years 100GB Google drive.
A web based, cloud storage system.
Google hasnt worked out a deal w/ Netflix yet, along w/ very popular android games and productivity apps.
No ESPN fantasy football, Fifth Third bank, etc.
I find it very useful when my children need to use our home computer(s).
It has all the apps and games that one can find on their android smart phone.
The biggest con is that many public wifi places are not supported for the Chromebook therefor most schools and many work places will prevent your Chromebook from working.
They have been using them everyday since Christmas.
Super fast start up.
Super fast internet.
He had researched it and that was the one he chose.
He uses it for his home work and many other things.
small, compact, fast, etc.
The product met all expectations.
Would highly suggest this as a person computer, especially for note taking and research.
The refurbished chromebook arrived in good cosmetic condition and functions fine when plugged into the wall.
But to take the Chomebook away on a flight or to a remote location with internet you can use the external SD card port for storage of movies, TV, and music.
They were busy with the chromebook by late afternoon.
The wife is a college student and has been using this book for the past term.
The only problem she has had was when two classmates knocked it off her desk and it hit the floor two different times.
they just cant make a good case for phones that have the key board.
We have looked other places and ckouldnt find a case.
this chromebook is a great buy specially for the price and it took only 3 days to arrive!
This device had troubles connecting to wireless networks and keeping connectivity.
There is not a lot of storage on this device but the intent is to use Google Drive which stores everything out in the cloud (stores in the Google data center and you access over internet).
He uses it for the internet.
This makes a perfect "second laptop" for browsing or hangouts on the couch or in bed.
Killer price, fast shipping, great deal.
This is perfect for my daughter to do her school work on!
It has all the features she needs to complete her school work, submit homework online, and check her teachers websites.
It is also small enough she can put it in her binder to take to school and be productive there as well.
This is the Chromebook that the school district uses for their students.
These 2 make the perfect traveling companions.
My 63 year old mother, however, is not.
Perfect internet machine.
Very light, boots up and shuts down quickly.
Everyone in my house loves it and there is always a fight over who is going to use it next!
This was the perfect choice for our daughter!
Not as expensive as regular laptop... but all the options that a teenager want!
tough to learn but functional for the use of internet browsing
However she shops pays bills and checks her e-mail so it is perfect for her.
Very handy for wife to take around the house (use in the kitchen to look up recipes, quickly check e-mail, show pics, etc.).
Can hook up to home theater to stream videos or play tracks from Google Music.
Very fast and  starts up immediately.
Delivered quickly and as promisedSaved me hundreds of dollars over another laptop since it meets my needs (internet, e-mails) while away on a trip
Reviews were very helpful in choosing the product and it has lasted 6 months until a problem arose.
Perfect for travel and fast!
The value for money is high.
The chromebook is everything as advertised.
We purchased this item for our teenage daughter and she absolutely loves it!
With my Dell Desktop (10 years old) and my Lenovo netbook (5 years old) both running on Windows XP, and Microsoft ending support of that OS, it came time to get a new computer.
I bought an additional charger and a soft zipper case to protect the computer when travelling.
Ill look into buying a newer, better monitor in the future.
Works as advertised.
There is no "Caps Lock", shortcut is: "alt" + (the magnifying class icon),  This is a toggle command.
The internet runs extremely quick.
College student loves it.
Good for 12yrs & younger.
I sent it back as soon as i opened the box!!
Bought this for our daughter who lives in another state halfway across the country.
money well spent
Should have send it back but no the computer works  with no instructions for operation the system.
For college students the writing and powerpoint are a must Chromebook makes things so difficult microsoft word are difficult to usel
The adapter/charger broke however, the metal easily bent, then broke off.
Poor quality of this, had to order a new one.
great way to intro kids to computers  Bought one for my granddaughter, whose school is using them
However there was no delete key and the right side scroll bar was a deal breaker for me with arthritic hands.
Also the Gmail was hard to follow to forward on to my friends.
Excellent machine for basic computing tasks (search web, email, netflix, etc.).
Got it for grand daughter for Christmas,works great,she loves it!!
No problems going through security.
Happy with purchase.
The directions also leave alot to be desired.
I am an associate pastor at a local church and pairing this computer with my Samsung Galaxy Note 2 has opened up a world of Google Docs I never knew existed.
I traveled from New York to California with this computer and the battery life was insane.
They were both new.
I bought this originally for personal use by ended up passing it down to my mom, and she pretty much flies around the web now and video chats with family.
So yeah, bringing the family together one family member at a time.
Boots up and runs quickly,also.
What a deal for under $300.
I purchased the Samsung Chromebook (Wi-Fi, 11.6) for my wife as a christmas gift.
She had mentioned she wanted a Laptop.
His laptop was getting old and he had a brand-new iMac already, but for a laptop he was accustomed to a PC.
A little hard for him to open.
We have trouble getting into our e-mail account also
laptop very fast for everything, boots up fast, moves rapidly from 1 page to another.
Long battery life, boots up fast, is exactly as stated a wi-fi device not a computer, suits our needs perfectly for internet and email, good purchase.
He never thought I would buy him his own!
We wanted it just to keep in touch with friends and family by e-mail, not for anything complex, and this has been just the ticket.
perfect for school and excellent traveling companion.
And an unsurpassable relation quality-price
received unit quickly but upon starting unit it had a error file and unable to use followed recovery procedures but if you purchase a product it should work correctly when you receive it, evidently the sender does not check his outgoing product.
Stopped working after 12 months of very light use.
Bought this to alleviate conflicts between shared users of the same macbook, but everyone prefers the macbook over this...
The computer died only after a few months- no power and wont charge.
After three months it stopped connecting to my WiFi.
Now I have a bum Chromebook and am shopping for a regular PC.
The Google Chrome Book is a 274$ (after tax and shipping) Google powered laptop electronic.
It is applicable (utilitarian wise) primarily in Google Apps.
The advantages of free calling/texting/phone number in any wifi hotspot with password across the USA are obvious for travelers.
Settings tabs in the Chrome browser for all Google Apps including voice enabled call forwarding to any verified phone and a million of other settings to adjust to the technology according to expertise and desire makes for a well rounded Online experience.
For the younger kids that mostly means accessing educational websites they work with at school, and for the older, research on the web and use as a word processor.
This is a great product for a person who only needs to use the internet on the go, check email etc.
This is android phone-like computer on steroids.
Bought it for my older parents and they struggle with it.
The Chromebooks have their own video chat through Google Hangouts and are NOT compatible with SKYPE.
small to take around.
THIS WAS A GIFT FOR MY HUSBAND AND HE LOVES IT GETTING ON THE INTERNET TO JUST PLAY GAMES OR DO RESEARCH.
in chemistry he called from abroad delighted with the speed &ease of usethe ordre came promptly inone day  cliff
You do need to have WiFi to get anything done (of course).
Basically, just wanted to search the web.
on top of that, it comes with a subscription to 2 years of google drive at 100gb, which at current rates costs $120 in its own right.
When trying to charge a high concentration is required.
ChromebookMy Grand daughter was surprised & is very happy with it, however my daughter uses it more than she do.
My son got it to do his school work but it did not support the documents he needed.
games, data and happiness.
I opened the box, turned the unit on and was set up very quickly.
My daughter is a middle school student attending "flipped" classes.
Her chromebook has been a must have purchase in order to stay on top of her assignments.
She is an A+ student as is the Samsung Chromebook.
My daughter loves it she is using it for school and pleasure the chrome provides all she needs to make life easier
Our daughters reluctantly used it only to fall in love with is ease and overall design!This is where the industry should be heading and is with this joint venture between Google and Samsung!
The Chromebook came with no operating system.
I sent it back the day it arrived.
No hard drive,  A couple keys are missing, but learning the shortcuts helps but take effort.
Good computer for the money!
I ordered the Chromebook and it arrived 2 days later.
great for students and teens
As many, many others have discovered to their dismay, the Google proprietary operating system will not work with Adobe CC.
but I also wanted to be able to use traveling with skype NO app for skype on the chromebook hope they will add the app
Computer is basically for internet use only.
Great replacement for the old and tied Windows operating system.
Microsoft finally has a low cost replacement and Intel is no longer the only processor in town.
I purchased this for my daughter for her birthday in Nov.2013.
Budget shipping was an inexpensive option and arrived via Fedex ground with tracking along the way
In the end purchased the MS Surface and am very happy now.
It was a Christmas gift to someone who uses all Microsoft Apps.
We bought this laptop for our 14 year old daughter as her first PC for Christmas.
Also, it is VERY difficult for her to print from the computer to the wireless printer in our home.
After hearing rave reviews about the Chromebook I decided to try it.
Have tried to return, but return reason will not work.
on 2 computers,Please Amazon send return information, as your system is not working properly
She had a cheaper one that got stolen.
I decided to return it and bought an iPad instead for web browsing.
Everything runs out of the browsers system  Chrome and you HAVE to have internet connection.
( Yes and No) The first day I had this computer I was about ready to smash it up against the wall.
However, Yall have failed in creating a computer that works efficiently.
when not in use... power seeps out at 20%+ each day).
Worst of all is the lack of ease in downloading to the local drive; it seems everything about Chromebook is designed to get the user into the cloud, and additional costs after the grace period.
Pros:HDMI port, USB2 & USB3Battery:  6-8 hoursCharge:  Super fast charge, about 2-3 hours while in use.
Purchased this as a trial in hopes it would be a solution for our 200 user field force.
This chromebook was falsely advertised.
My wife is a Philippine citizen and she had hard time understanding what to do with chrome.
She had a friend look at it and he could not understand what to make of it, it was not anything he had seen before.
My mistake and now she has to figure how to return it.
My Samsung android cell phone does better job of fitting information to a small screen.-Everything is set up to use cloud, by design.
With very little memory, everything is set up to store on cloud (profitable for Google?
), and by design the memory is small.
In the file manager app, you must click checkbox then scroll to top or bottom (not consistent whether top or bottom) to see if there any options (like copy/paste/move).-It is ackward to download from cloud to Chromebook (like mp3).
No options for download location, your mp3 is downloaded to "Download" folder, then you must move your mp3 to your folder of choice, as there is no default music folder on Chromebook.
Cannot use for Bluetooth for: Bluetooth headset, cannot sync or connect your phone via Bluetooth.-Youtube videos are displayed very well, they are beautifulGet a Android tablet, or save a few more dollars and use the money to buy a netbook or laptop.
While I had purchased warranty, I just decided to return it for a refund.
However, the screen self destructed from the inside while sitting on a table unattended.
Be warned before considering this purchase.
This was purchased as an email and photo station for new computer users (it appeared to need only an outboard hard drive) .. Alas, I needed it to work immediately - so could not return it... Hiss Boo Samsung Chrome
However I have had nothing but problems with them and have returned three already.
They want to charge me a fee and a fifteen dollar return fee because they said it was damaged due to misuse without explaining what that was.
They already repaired one that had to be sent back after they stated that it was run on a low battery.
PSI have had three returned since January.
Eleven hours after trying to set up this product with the assistance of others, we eventually decided to ship it back to Amazon the following day.
In the meantime, my regular computer has been out of commission for three days due to the "suggested" directions.
).
After a slight learning curve for "cloud" based data and program access, my father found the Chromebook to be a great fit.
Thus students do not need to be assigned a device, they can jump on any classroom chromebook and have instant access to their files, apps and projects.
Google Drive is an excellent substitute for dropbox, so students can keep all of their files in Google Drive and then have access to them on any machine.
The battery on the chromebook also lasts a long time so the teacher can put out the chromebooks at the beginning of the day and have them last the entire school day without being plugged in.
This eliminates the power cord hazards.
I was eager to leave greedy Microsoft and Apple behind, so when the price of Chromebooks got reasonable I bought one.
Simplicity of operation - my wife is the owner/user and the computer to her is a word processor and a e-mail device nd the chrome satisfies this need.
This fits the needs for my 11 year old; You Tube, school papers and research.
working on cloud spreadsheets, booking travel, online banking.
Please returnthe external drive back to Best Buy.
The only external drive that will work are hard drives that can store filesdirectly into the storage unit and the file system is supported by theChromebook.
Takes some time to get used to using only Google Drive and their web apps but works very well.
After waiting for this to get restocked, I finally got it for my daughter who is a nursing student.
Sadly, it just stopped working after 14 months.
She had a desktop for her regular work.
It crashed and burned,  missed the one year warranty by a few months.
She had to have one asap so she purchased a Toshiba laptop.
Bought this chromebook for my 12yr old daughter and she loves it.
She uses it for school work, listening to music, and surfing.
Only down side is that he is unable to play some of his internet games with friends.
After a week or two we realized everybody was vying for the chromebook over the ipad.
This was a gift for a friend of mine and he Loves it and uses it daily.
Works great for students or for business.
Great for travel or the coffee shop etc.
Merry Christmas.
Over a year later, the battery still holds a charge for a long time, turns on/shuts down quickly, and is very lightweight.
I am a graduate student at a Cal State University who constantly needs to be on a computer.
The other star deduction is because google is attempting to recreate major applications in their own style (i. e. Google sheets versus Microsoft Word and Secure Shell app for Code::Blocks).
I guess what I am trying to say is that one must buy a Chromebook already prepared to learn new software applications, because you will.
Everything opens up on the web and saves to the web.
Everything saves to the Cloud!
I love how quickly this computer starts up and is ready to go.
I purchased for my wife who uses her computer for email and surfing the internet mostly.
im not a student or a computer based employee i only want it for the internet.
I have the feeling that cloud computing will soon become the new norm.
great for kids in school
to replace Microsoft Office.
My Chromebook is my new best friend and without a doubt, cloud computing is the future.
It even arrived a day earlier than predicted :)
Business users need to allow apps in their settings as opposed to regular google users can add as they wish.
Perfect computer for emailing, researching, picture storing, video chatting,  I  have had the chromebook for a year.
Perfect laptop for students using Google Docs for assignments.
Purchased this as a Christmas present for my grand daughter and she loves it.
She is eight years old and is having no troubles finding what she wants and the simple layout of Chrome is what people have been waiting for out of computers for years.
Also, my google setting never did sync from my other laptop (no matter much I tried to find a solution) and forget about trying to get the dang thing to print with a regular printer that I already owned - which hence requires me to log back onto my HP laptop in order to print something.
essentially its a browser based laptop with very little internal storage (16GB) However, google gives you an addtional 100GB online via its google drive service.
I decided to redeem the free 100gb of storage space for google , however it was already redeemed .
The Chromebook is a joy to use; well-built and very functional, it is the future of computing, the open answer to the closed over-priced, under-performing fashion accessories from Apple.
The chromebook operating system using chrome.
I will need to purchase a "cloud ready" printer to use directly with the Chromebook.
simple and ready to use out of the box.
Update:  With the help of other Amazon reviewers I was able to gain access to the 100gb drive upgrade.
all the software lives on the server, so if you wanted to write a letter to a friend and you are sitting in a park away from a WIFI connection forget about it.
The only downside is the now delete key.
This is a great device for surfing the Internet, which is the majority of the activities we do with a computer these days.
I looked into several prior to my purchase & this won, hands down!!!
Dont expect to use any windows or apple based programs on this, just know that this is a work computer that is meant to DO WORK AND RESEARCH and of course some play.
This was delivered a week before school starts and the ease of learning how to use it is great!
This is perfect for the classes she will need to write reports on.
Perfect for an aspiring student writer.
Works as advertised for the price.
He is my son!
We returned it and are now going to spend extra money to have a larger laptop (loved the compact size) to allow JAVA to operate.
bought this for my niece (12yrs old).. she loves it.. watches movies, plays games, does homework, etc.. great buy!
Everything was great/exceptional except when WiFi is unavailable; then it is useless and you have to realize that.
Great for surfing the internet and paying games.
Chromebook 1 year, and days old.
I live about 85 miles from an office store.
All sorts of advice and suggestions can be found online, but a huge selling point of the Chromebook is the relative freedom from dubbing around with computers it offers the non-savvy user.
The Samsung chrome book had a frayed power cord.
Had to buy a new cord.
In order to connect to the Internet.
the free in flight internet is a nice addition too
This is just great for schools language arts teachers who teach with laptops.
This is just a great product when the students have email accounts for Gmail.
Tough getting use to from using typical laptop.
I read "In The Plex" about inside Google (Great readBTW) and I have been using chrome and google docs for quite a while to prepare for a transition office wide for an all Chrome cloud based office.
So anyway I ordered one of the Chromebooks the DAY it came out and mine arrived this morning.
Pros:Fast boot up and shutdown, no virus, automatic updates and plenty of online storage from google drive.
:It may shut down unexpectedly (system crashes, many reviews noted this issue) Very limited supply of apps, mainly google based apps.
Hope this will be fixed soon!
Do not buy this computer when there are soo many other options for the same price and CAN run windows programs.
This chromebook worked fine for several weeks, but then we lost the ability to connect to the local wi-fi, which works with every other computer in the house.
We followed all the instructions that we could find on google groups, including resetting the chromebook.
DUE TO EFFECTS OF HURRICANE SANDY I FINALLY GOT AROUND TO OPENING THE BOX TODAY...
I tried return the item before due to getting shocked during use.
They wouldnt refund my money and sent the item back saying it had damage on the computer; which is not true.
My son picked this out as a Christmas present for himself.
He quickly decided it was not what he wanted.
We returned and will get a Windows based laptop.
Just unpacked from 12/2 amazon purchase and discovered absence of adapter and power cord.
impossible to resolve w/live person and web info states must return Whole note book to receive missing parts!
Next time purchase from Bricks & Mortar!!
Before buying this tablet research WM8650 by WonderMedia which is the model number that physically comes on this tablet.
Had to return two different chromebooks for shutting off and freezing up.
The app store is limited with nowhere near the maturity of the Android Play Store.
Nooooo internet only and tech support is lost.
Wanted to use this device for SKYPE to talk to my son in the military!
i received this google chrome book at first it seemed to be ok it starts messing up witin the first three weeks try to work with samsung and their customer service is terrible they will not replace the unit they want me to sent it in for repair wich will take up to two weeks the issues with the unit are having a large line through the screen and hdmi output quit working wish i would have got an hp laptop dont buy samsung products as they do not care about their customers
The biggest problem is learning how to deal with documents... it is INSANESpend the extra 50 - 100 and stick with tried an true systems.
With ths system, very hard to learn.
They were all sold out everywhere except the a few higher models.
I had thegeek squad at Best Buy send it out to get it repair.
A waste of money!Looking to buying a Sony or Dell computer instead!
Side by side with a three year old pc laptop - wireless speed on Chromebook was 2.85 mbps, Lenovo netbook was 21.5 mbps.
Traded a couple emails with a Google "ninja" but they were unresponsive/useless.
ArchBiz is a company that apparently makes its money from trying to sell products that are wrongly advertised and then charging the customers a bogus and outlandish restocking/refund fee.
Chromebook was plugged in, my son tripped over adapter cord, computer fell onto carpeting and screen cracked.
99% of plug and play, printers, external DVD/CD writers, and software are either Windows, Mac, nothing in Chrome.
Tried USB printers with their own install CD, will not accept.
I talked to the relative who purchased the Chromebook and stated that I felt bad, and felt that the money spent for the Chromebook was lost money.
Samsung Chromebook (Wi-Fi, 11.6-Inch)
Everything is browser based, from creating a document or watching netflix,  It is more of an endpoint terminal to connect to services on the internet.
Also for traveling this is light, small, and at $250 less of a risk / loss if damaged or stolen.
It was annoying but I figure it out and solved the problem by going into developers mode and then turning back (erases everything) into normal mode.
FOR PERSONAL USE I RATE THE SAMSUNG CHROMEBOOK NUMBER ONE....,IM GOING TO BUY MY GIRLFRIEND ONE WHEN AVAILABLE
I was deciding between the chromebook and a tablet, and I chose the chromebook because I need a no-frills productivity machine that can also be used for light internet consumption.
I am a graduate student who uses powerpoint and PDFs to study and present material to the sections I teach, as well as create documents for study guides and note-taking.
Got this for a ten year-old as her first computer, mostly to give her easy access to Google Docs, which her school uses for homework.
Got this for my kids (ages 15 & 12) and they love it!
It does everything they need for school & play.
Fast boot, long battery life and virus free.
Great for a quick search, banking, or shopping.
It is basically a web based computer, however the software is phenomenal!
I am typing my review on my Chromebook :-)  The Chromebook arrived promptly and upon taking out of the box, etc it started right up.
I am now going to purchase one for my daughter as she loves to steal it leaving her beloved Apple iPad behind.
It does everything that she needs to do; her email and her banking.
Perfect for the person who is on the go and does not want to spend a lot.
It allows them to do everything they need, all on the google network.
This computer is fast, light, easy to use and all the software is free
Perfect for web surfing and using the internet.
Fast and lightweight - perfect for traveling!
I own a web design company and purchased this devise when my old laptop died.
GOT IT FOR MY HUSBAND AND HE SAYS IT"S EASIER TO USE THAN MY LAPTOP, GETS ON RIGHT AWAY AND EASIER TO USE, MADE A GREAT GIFT FOR HIM.
This chrome book is perfect for anyone who is new to computers, user friendly and fast.
I purchased two of these Google Chromebooks for our middle school age daughters.
On the positive side, Amazon has replaced them quickly and painlessly each time.
We plan to purchase two HP Chromebooks with the refunds.
However Netflix and chrome are still working out there differences.
This is an excellent product, for fast, travel, light weight.... bought for son for birthday along with his own $$.... it has been a wonderful addition, secretly I have it in kitchen a lot for recipe look up!
Charge holds forEVER!!!
Had this and just passed the 4 month line, Screen started acting up like a cord was messed up  2 months in, Now half of my screen is white with weird electrical smudges and the other side is my computer, Past the line of Return (LITERALLY) and exchange.
Not a simple product for first timers as advertised on television.
I will try to return it later today.
I intended to purchase this for school as I take online classes at a local university.
We use Blackboard as our online learning software, which many universities use.
Nice unite, light but I bought it for traveling for e mails and for contact with family via Skype when traveling........... unfortunately, contrary to information I received from a big box electronic store saying it was good for Skype.......
BUT.......... there is no way to use Skype.................. one has to use google talk.......... After a few calls and a few hours trying to get Skype, and calling the tech center.... for this unit........
and no way to maintain contacts via Skype with family members...............
This makes three items in sixty days that have been broken, I should have never ordered anything else after my daughters boots came with the sole falling off.
I bought this for my daughter to take with her to college.
When we tried to download them from the Google Play store nothing worked and all we got were error messages.
Am returning it to go buy a laptop from a brick and mortar store.
After much research, I settled upon the Chromebook as a highly portable second computer, as a graduate student to do light writing and paper editing while I was away from home.
I had not seen the Chromebook in person and after seeing one I sent mine back before even  opening.
Along with Joe Sixpack and the Pedophiles that live down the street.
Unable to use - requires more computer knowledge for set up and use  than available at basic level -very little in way of directions and and required companion setups
As there was a long wait, it took about a month to receive from the time of order.
Contacted support which took 3 days for a response (too long).
I bought this Chromebook for all three of my kids (13, 11 & 9) 3 months ago in preparation for school.
As of now, several months later, two have already broken with shattered screens.
It appears that when leaving the laptop closed with the cover down, basic stresses cause the screen to shatter.
Both of these are rumored to be coming soon.
Battery life is as advertised.
When I found the Chromebook, I decided to give it a try.
After the adjustment period (for instance, no delete key), I was sold.
Chrome (browser, social medial, video) plus offline apps plus Google Drive (Google Documents, Presentations, Spreadsheets) plus Sky Drive (Word, Excel, Powerpoint).
Soon to come, Netflix.
I purchased two of these, one for my 12yo daughter and my 19yo son.
However, after about 2 weeks it started crashing.
Should have put the money towards a macbook air.
Matter of fact, my  IT professional at work thought it was a great product and he bought one for his mom who just wanted to use the Internet.
I bought mine for the kids to play their Disney and Nick Jr games.
Great travel device.
As a graduate student, this product was very beneficial in research and writing paper.
No more updating, restarting, waiting for start-up, looking for a plug to charge (great battery life on the Chromebook).
Bought another for my daughter to use at home.
Update 6.3.2013...... hooked up two small USB driven speakers.
After just a few months the USBs are acting up - losing connection at the slightest movement of the cord.
After wasting hours trying to get this new computer up and running I have hit a dead end.
A third option asks you to "Select a network" but when the drop down menu opens, there is just the same list of languages shown in the "Select a language" drop down menu.
There are no network options to select from.
The Samsung Chromebook does not come with an owners manual and the online help from Google and Samsung is useless for this problem.
For the geeks, this is supported by Arch ARM (as it runs ARM architecture) and you can dual boot and have great developer options to play around.
Spotify, Netflix, Hulu, Youtube (even 1080p) work perfect.
Google Drive (docs) is a good replacement of MS Office.
Maybe one day they will fix this issue but as of now many students have had this issue since last year with no resolve.
Broken within 6 months.
After spending $20 to send it, I was informed 2 weeks later that the warranty has been voided because of the "cracked" screen.
The first one crashed and the second one did not have an operating system.
We spent months trying to resolve our problems and finally gave up and got our money back.
Hassle free - no constant interruptions from anti-virus software.3.
Data in the cloud - not afraid of losing machine to giving it away.
I returned the laptop and bought a Samsung Chromebook 550 for my wife (she loves it and wont depart it) and a Macbook for myself.
The free Apple word processor (Pages) opens my word files correctly.
A sticker on the box says, "Included with this device for two years is up to 100MB per month of Mobile Broadband service provided by Verizon Wireless."
I suspected that a card to stick in the back was left out of the package.
Jim in Ohio
All my other laptop type devices (lenovo, hp, asus) the batterys will last weeks when turned off.
Im considering sending it back.
And when it IS ACTUALLY FUNCTIONING (45% of the time) it lags like crazy!
The only thing to brag about (which they have done to the limit) is that it takes little time to load.
I have used other computers in the public library from the year 2000 with better connection to the internet and better internet service.
Now it is too late to return it.
The unit ran down in about 3 hours.
This Chromebook has eliminated those hassles and is now her primary PC.
Being unable to Skype her brother is one limitation, but we use another old laptop for that.
He could also switch to Google Voice.
Her biggest frustration was the non-backlit keyboard.
The whole point of a chromebook is to do everything online, including creating and storing files, since there is no hardrive space to store data.
She just wants to stream movies and shows online.
Not compatible with the games she likes (Minecraft, etc).
Closed the top and went to bed.
Blue light on the power button is on it is charged (have it plugged in now) and nothing.
I finally requested service which is what to do first time, however, you will pay to ship it after getting service info online.
Then it suddenly crashed, w/no warning, after only about 4 months.
A month after we had it a small crack appeared in the upper right corner.
Google does offer Chrome Remote Desktop, an application to interface with another computer.
Surprisingly very functional for a school with a 1:1 format (personal device for each student).
I bought it for my daughter to look things up for her school work.
com/gp/product/B00J49ZH6K/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp;=1789&creative;=390957&creativeASIN;=B00J49ZH6K&linkCode;=as2&tag;=travguid0ca-20
She loves it15 years old in high school, she spent a ton of time learning the operating system despite not being very tech savvy just because she loves this chromebook so much.
I got her a monitor along with it and she gchats/videochats her friends constantly.
Does all her homework and papers on here so when she is at school in computer lab, can access her work via google drive.
Brings this to school and uses it after hours for everything under the sun.
She is constantly finding new applications and has not one complaint about it.
It is super simple to set up and get started.
The main reasons are the instant on and connected (no waiting for anything what so ever after opening the lid).
In addition the the browsing using the trackpad is very much like the MacbookAir (responsive scrolling with two fingers).
Third, I wanted to have a laptop up with ESPN Gamecast on during football games (and I expect to do the same during NASCAR season).
I have tried many iterations (and frankly I have purchased from BestBuy because I can return them more easily after trying them for a few weeks).
The google nexus 7 (great for reading in bed but not sitting next to the couch).
They do mostly web things (facebook, instagram, etc), but the Google Docs apps (spreadsheetthey can do all of their homework with that.
Everything is saved to the cloud (Dropbox or google drive) their documents, so no losing data.
It turns on and off really fast and is great for home schooling.
Not sure if there is a plan to support it, Microsoft and Google have their heads buried in the sand on this one apparently.
He ran upstairs and charged it and was immediately online.
The amount of virus protection included seemed a real bonus.
The easiest to set up!
Just an FYI for others who plan on installing programs with disks on the computer.
Perfect for moms and dads who doesnt know how to run iOS or Windows !
Small, fast, useful netbook.. this made a great present for a helpful neighbor and his little boy.
This was the perfect Xmas gift for my son who broke his 1 year old laptop accidentally a few months prior.
When it arrived it was packaged well.
i suggest using this in conjunction with a windows computer... this would be for school, Netflix in the car, and browsing on the go, the windows computer would be for everything else...
Wish Microsoft releases it soon.
When I realized they were about to spend $1200 on a "senior" computer that had nothing but a touchscreen and a higher magnified screen I thought we should give the Chromebook a try first at $250.
And Netflix runs like a champ on the computer.
But she lives in a nursing home and they have no internet.
It took very little time for him to realize the benefits of using Cloud storage compared to hard drive storage, especially when he saw how nicely everything stayed in synch with his Android tablets.
Many things get broken around our house.
After our last Toshiba laptop died (on its own) I figured this would be the cheapest way to go without worry.
We purchased theseChrome books for our students because they are dependable and easy to manage.
A friend of mine suggested the Chromebook.
Downloading a resume and trying to work on it and save it is challenging.
Perfect for travel and someone who just needs a basic computer for word processing, email and internet.
The track pad takes a while to learn, but very responsive.
We got this mainly for travel but find ourselves using it in and around the house.
finally found one could get on network.
Fast start up, tied into all things Google.
We found that it had been previously used as there was a "user" logged in whose profile had to be erased before we could use the unit.
Love the pricing and the freebies that come along with the purchase such as the free gogo passes.
I plan on purchasing another one for my mother.
I also have an iPad, but consider it a "consumption" device for carrying around the house and reading on the john like a magazine.
Bought the Chromebook for our college students.
He takes it to class and has written several papers.
It also meets his social media needs and scheduling and rosters etc.
for the sports he coaches.
He likes the Chromebook and states that it is meeting all of his needs.
She gets viruses and all kinds of garbage on her other computers.
The virtue of this is that the Chrome OS is constantly monitored for cyber attacks by Google and routinely updated when you log in, without requiring separate anti-virus software.
I printed the label and left the package outside before I went to work the next morning.
They had already ordered the replacement and I had it in two days.
Got this for my son for college and he loves it!
No need to be a "computer person" no antivirus to download or programs needed.
save yourself  a few hundred dollars and get this.
Internet browsing,  streaming video and word processing.
Must buy for anyone in the market.
He researched it chose this one.
Incredimail and Business Card Factory.
She learned how to use the computer really fast and stopped calling me every other day about something not working.
It also helps to know that (finally) Logmein is working on an extension for Google Chrome, in case that is an important service for you.
The computer is user friendly, just had to get used to not having a right and left "click".
I am sure Google has every intention of fixing this, but they have been deceptive in their advertising where they show these sites being used on the new Chromebook.
No information comes with the machine and the tutorial at the beginning is sparse.
Was Exactly what my son wanted, easy to use, Perfect size, Does Everything he needs with school & gaming HAPPY
At a conference last week I moved from one area of the hotel with WIFI to another without WIFI and could take notes, without worry about battery or connectivity with notes going to Google drive.
Light weight makes it very easy to carry, instant on makes it the go-to machine among windows laptops, keyboard makes email reply and search simple and choice over tablet.
Set up with GMAIL accounts for all in family, it is the machine used for quick access, updates, facebook, etc.
Knocked off a high counter top and crashed on the floor.
Landed on the back edge and bent the tiny little power plug.
The little plug in pin (power adapter) did not break and all works fine.
Printing takes a little work and gone are the days of plugging your laptop into any printer and finding the driver.
Perfect for the basic things and perfect for school once it begins.
My machine prior to this was a XPS 16 with 2nd gen I7, 8 gig ram, and a 256 SSD.
However, when travelling or just for everyday non-desk use they can be a bit large and cumbersome.
My research narrowed down my purchase of a portable option for travel to the ASUS Zenbook or the Lenovo Yoga.... both of which appear to be great machines.
The hook of the free go-go inflight passes, the 100 gigs of storage on GDrive, and the 100 meg month of 3g from Verizon caused me to reconsider my purchase decision.
After some research, I decided to try the Chromebook.
Got this quickly and found the software needed an update which happens automatically.
=)
$180.
I plan on purchasing another one for my mother that how simple and user friendly they are.
I am not a "computer" guy just a regular user who surfs the web and creates documents.
But after using for over a month this has become second nature.
We got this computer for my daughter to do online school.
She is able to do her assignments on it.
Works great as a second computer for internet use only,
Today is Christmas and i Have been using the Samsung Google Chromebook (Wi-Fi).
The keyboard, cloud printing & saving etc was nerve-wracking until I found apps that worked normal for classic printing.
The Samsung Chromebook costs le$$ than my Nexus 4(w/horrible T-mobile service).
Bought one over a year ago for my girlfriend along with an epson cloud printer.
I hope they put this back soon.
She got one month of usage.
My daughter was using it, the screen went black, and now it turns on, but the screen stays black (with a slight back light).
I have one, and bought this one for my sister(who has spent the last 20 years avoiding computers) She loves it.
After a couple of weeks and a couple of emails to Google, I returned the Chromebook.
bought this for my father beacuse he likes computers better then tablets and it is a great find for him
When he opened the package, the advice was confirmed.
He claims it is the best present he ever got and seems to continue to hold it in high esteem.
There supposed to be getting netflix supper sometime soon but as of now they have not.
I had to cancel the membership due to money problems but have had two people say it works now with new updates.
We were told about it at our Computer Club meeting.
if you have done your research on Chromebooks, you know that your data is save to the "Cloud" (somewhere else).
Bought this for son for Christmas for his college studies.
For my 93 old Mother who checks email and logs into her various accounts, this paired with Lastpass is ideal.
The chromebook was extremely easy to set up and learn to operate.
I was planning on buying an apple computer for my daughter and noticed this on sale on Amazon.
T he only problem, a key fell off it the first day.
I ordered it; it arrived; the touchpad was defective; I returned it; I recieved a replacement; the touchpad was defective; I returned it.
The computer was for my husband who only knows a limited amount about computers, but he took to his one right from the start.
had tested them out and found them to be quick and have long battery life.
She uses it for reading blogs, browsing the web (facebook, news...), and for streaming videos.
These Chromebooks now work with and can stream Netflix!
In addition, 90% of what they do is on the internet.
There is not a single application that they use on the Apple Macs we have at home (we have 9) that they use.
The computer basically requires a virtual internet connection, true.
They break things, lose things, and generally just abuse them.
They were very heavy to carry when we traveled and also put off heat when in use.
After fussing over it for two days, we ordered a second.
We also love the quick start up.
The "His and Her" Chromebooks work perfectly!
The computer is so fast and the hardware (keyboard, ports, touchpad, etc) are also excellent.
Also, I find that I regularly get 7 hours of battery life taking notes, browsing, etc.
works great for a small travel device.
It was a gift to my granddaughter and she, of course, carries it to school and uses it happily and continuously every day.
It was a gift for my daughter and she loves it
I ordered one of these for my son, who works out of state and needed a way to communicate at odd times - and that worked out so well I got another one for myself and one for a friend who is in an extended-living facility.
Wife love it can get her off from the ChromeBook very light and handy easy for travel we are planning to use it went we travel
The union between the cord the the PC is so tiny I know it will break soon.
Apple did a nice job with their magnetic connector, perhaps they could create something similar (without patent issues of course!)
Perfect for anyone in school.
We bought these for our school, as a cheaper alternative to the i-pad.
We love them, and plan on getting more!
They are so easy for the kids to use (I teach 1st grade), and since they work with Google Docs, then our kids can do everything they need to with a simple wifi connection.
As others have stated - these are NOT laptops.
I am able to just give a student one (so portable!)
whenever they finish their work before others.
They go online to use educational programs, both free and purchased (IXL, SpellingCity, AdaptedMind, Free Rice, etc).
They can take their Accelerated Reader tests.
All of these programs run perfectly on these machines - they never freeze (as happens on laptops and computers), and respond quickly to commands.
I bought this for my college age daughter who needed something portable to take to her classes.
Light, fast start up and shut down.
Shipping was really fast, however after receiving the chromebook, it started rebooting after 1-2 hours of use.
I bought this for a friend of mine who is always calling me with what she thinks are problems with her computers.
She loves her Chromebook.
(Just a note, this is someone who does not understand the difference between something being on her hard drive or on the cloud.
To her, everything that goes wrong is something wrong with the computer... never (Ha!)
anything she does.)
On boot-up I have the option of selecting the Ubuntu operating system (in this case on an SDHC card) or continuing to ChromeOS.
It is compatible with my AT&T internet wireless modem and other WiFi, when traveling.
Having to stay with a sick relative who has no internet service, has presented problems when I need to check on bank accounts or bills.
I am by no means a computer expert, but after reading the other reviews I decided to give the new Chromebook a chance.
I do plan to use this to take heavy duty notes when I observe teachers (I am a high school admin.)
However, as of right now, chrome os cannot run java which is used for my school bullitin.
Best buy this year for meMy daughter loves it and would consider replacing my lap top with one when it dies.
My wife needed a computer to check her e-mail, facebook, browse the internet, and type simple documents.
We purchased a Samsung Chromebook for an upcoming ocean cruise.
A couple of days after we purchased it, the Acer 720 Chromebook was released with the Haswell CPU and better batter life and better performance.
We had a day to try the Samsung before returning, then the new Acer.
my husband has had the chrome for two months extremely pleased with it he loves the fact it is quick to start and does all he needs it to do.
Wife loves it she can take it with her anywhere and conect to the internet to do her school work
Powers on as soon as you open the lid, and from startup to desktop simply requires a google account.
my 14 year old daughter bought this chromebook for herself and she is very happy to have this in order for her to do her schoolwork independantly
I ordered this computer for a young girl who is in college.
I hope she will graduate in three years.
Chromebook arrived about a week ago.
For example, my parents are visiting from Europe ans so I signed them up for a streaming TV service in their native language.
Easy to pick up and learn and the support grows more and more everyday .
A dream comes true, between 6 o 7 hours of normal use.4.
100gb free on Google Drive, this pay the computer.
My daughter had a test pilot in fifth grade at school.
All the kids got to use these at school and bring them home for the last month of school.
We paid $249 each for the WIFI version and they have been worth every penny.
They start up fast and my 8 year old can work it on her own too.
Large keyboard, and the "mouse" works very well.
Samsung and Google have both abdicated responsibility, choosing to losing me forever as a customer.
Light, compact, and ready to go.
He used his old laptop for surfing the web, shopping online and listening to you tube videos.
He loves, loves, loves this computer!
Second  I wanted a computer where I am not faced with constant operating upgrades that I need to buy.
Chromebook does everything need to allow a Freshman in High School stay organized..... even allows Google Docs to be worked on offline.
I asked my IT maven friends what to get for my first home computer for the internet, e-mail and the occasional letter.
16GB of user memory allows local storage of files used when there is no wi-fi.
The printing via cloud was easy to set up.
My son uses his in class to take notes.
Boots up lightening fast, no virus software to worry about and no updates that interfere with your productivity.
With the upcoming compatibility with Microsoft Word/Excel applications, this computer will be spot-on.
SSH, FTP via online web editor, sql editor, RDC... and it supports a mouse.
Boots quick, simple to setup, was on web 2 minutes after opening the box.
She was frustrated with continual updates, security issues and the time it took for rebooting and searches.
She basically uses the computer for three things.
Search the internet, email and Words With Friends.
Surfing the internet is significantly faster and there is no "booting up".
Two negatives are the very limited number of apps currently available (No WWF) and this unit does not have a "LOCK Caps" button.
got Chromebook for wife so she could do her facebook and games.
She loves her new toy.
alot of laptop for the money.
Check out Google Play store before going for a brand of Chromebook.
Update 10/15*************I have now had this for over 6 months.
In July, it stopped all of a sudden, and wont power up.
They took about 20 days to replace the internals.
(Reduced the rating from 5 to 3 stars.
Their support is not good and I just gave the device to a friend who is a geek and he agrees.
she loves it and uses it daily.
detected wi-fi immediately upon boot.
My husband loves his google chromebook.
It starts up in seconds and shuts down immediately.
Does prefer a wireless mouse however.
Perfect for traveling.
This chrome book came in two days.
So easy to use for someone that taught their self how to use a computer.
Finally, you get 100GB of Google drive storage for free for two years (a value of $5 / month).
This noiseless, beautiful computer is perfect even removing the necessary task of having to manually back-up everything.
Just as advertised, and perfect for home use with Google Drive.
You can add as many users as you want - each gets their unique space.
Bought this as a first laptop for my 10 year old daughter, she hasnt put it down.
Went back to college, wanted something light and compact and NOT Windows based.
No waiting for Microsoft Windows to load, which seems to take forever.
It made my heart glad to see a young girl (19 years old), show her gratitude in that way.
My daughter has no complaints and it meets all of the qualifications for school demands.
Having to learn ANOTHER way (iTunes, Amazon, not Google Music) to upload & play my fav tunes is annoying.2) Having to surf thru MORE apps to find things - at a price!
!Thanks & God Bless!!
They told me he accidently ran over it with his truck.
Wonder computer for older people, there is no operating system to confuse them.
The Chomebook is meant to make your average internet routines, such as sending emails and updating your facebook page, a mucheasier task.
So the Chromebook is a internet friendly device.
The Chromebooks reminds of theWolVol PINK Mini Computer Laptop Notebook 7 inch PC WIFI internet Android 2.2 Built-in Camera 4gb HD 256mb Ram (INCLUDES: Velvet Pouch Case, Charger, Mini Optical Mouse),which is also very internet friendly.
No Virus worries.
everything is in the Google drive and cloud.
Has similar software to microsoft office.
Go with Google chrome... tryout Chrome, Gmail, Drive, and Google +.
for fun.. play... a quick Google search... cant beat the price..
For certain people (grandparents or younger children) this could be a primary computer.
I had researched before I bought it and after read the reviews and speaking to my son, who recomended it in the first place, decided to buy.
We purchased this for out daughter back in the fall for school work.
She loves it, The wifi works great and allows her to work or play from any where in the house
It is extremely fast (booting up within seconds) and she is able to access all websites that are on her school assignments.
However, this is the perfect laptop for a K-12 student with minimal needs.
We purchased this for our son for son for Christmas.
(3 days later.. anbd endless work work work and chat chat caht) It is not easy.
EPSON and BROTHER!
She tried to have complaints the first day but failed and have not heard any complaints since once she figured it out.
I did not want to spend a lot of time "learning" a new way of doing things, but I wanted a light, fast booting machine for browsing and accessing my host computer (via logmein) when I was out of the office.
My daughter got this to use for school.
Just what the doctor ordered... meets all the needs... light weight and very portable... great product for a second computer or a first one for an 11 year old.
Have had my Chromebook for a few months now for the intention of taking on work trips.
We needed to replace our family computer and didnt want to spend big money on a Mac.
It a little different from windows but after some time she grew to love it , never crashes , holds a super long charge , and is an easy email/facbook/hulu/netflix machine for her .
Just recently bought a windows 8 computer.
LCD screen dead after 10 months.
She loves her new laptop!!
My both children are at university and find this laptop to be useful for their purpose.
The laptop worked for one hour and had to be returned.
Suddenly the battery stopped holding a charge.
It is currently packed up and ready to be shipped back to Amazon.
I am told the issue is due to an incompatibility issue between the Windows 8 updates (which the machine downloads automatically once switched on) and the hardware.
The technical centre is based in India and the telephone line kept dropping.
I had to call 5 times, which was really infuriating because I had to start from scratch each time (warranty code, laptop model, my name, description of the problem, etc).
Very disappointingly, Dell could not fix the problem over the phone, and  wanted the product returned to them for servicing - this would have taken weeks.
This laptop is advertised to have an i5 3.1 GHz processor (http://www.
com/Dell-Inspiron-i17R-1053sLV-17-Inch-Laptop/dp/B009LTUB1E/ref=sr_1_1?s=electronics&ie=UTF8&qid=1353674608&sr=1-1&keywords=i17r-1053slv), but actually has an i3 2.4 GHz processor.
Had the pleasure of setting one of these up for a friend... now I am looking to get a couple.
Was just getting used to it (i. e., not having  a mouse) and the learning curve of dealing with Windows 8, when a week after I received it, the laptop crashed.
This computer is fast, there is a learning curve with windows 8(coming from xp).
I ordered this for my niece since she joined college this summer.
The next day got to call Dell, spent over nearly 2 hours over the phone, still not working.
Finally Uniys called my office on Dec 27 that they wouldl send a technician to fix it on Dec 28.
I called Uniys in C. R. but they said I must call Dell for another appointment.
this computer was requested by a 12 year old.
Easy to use, easy to learn Windows 8.
The courier person had come to office and he has not called my international number at all (India number) and he had taken back.
Dell Inspiron i15R-2369sLV 15-Inch LaptopI am trying to get customer support on this laptop because the wi-fi is stuck.
I used it for one month and suddenly the HD crashed after I updated the software with a DELL driver.
From media to games to just browsing the web.
Great computer, love having the latest software and operating system.
Bought this laptop in USA and have been using this Laptop for the last 2 weeks.
As, am going to use this laptop only in India.
i have to take one of the 4G memory to make it work, both memories are ok, but the pc wont start with both of them, I call the "Wonderful dell support" and guest what I have to take it back to US to have the mother board replaced because the warranty only works in US, this means this is a computer with out a visa or passport to leave US!!
So I called Dell, they sent a technician out and they swapped the hard drive.
They sent a USB drive with Windows on it.
Now it says the Windows activation key is invalid and is blocked.
I sent in the Laptop and 2 weeks later just now received it back.
Have the computer for 2-3 weeks and the hard drive was BAD!Already had to send it in and get it replaced and repaired!
They must be haveing trouble selling windows 8 as the price of windows 7 is now higher then windows 8.
Constant hardware issues... no OS paperwork included (pirated version?).
i used to buy only HP laptops, only for a friends advice i change the brand and i was very impresive for what i get, the laptop is very fast, works great.
%$#""!
()/I do not want to waste my time returning the tem.
Then they loaded Windows 8 on it, That dropped the rating from 5 Stars to 3.
Windows 8 is OK for smartphones , tablets, and other toys, but not for a computer.
After I scraped Windows 8 off and loaded 7, I had the system I had been looking for.
This computer is an ideal computer for home use.
The old computer was 7 years old.
Windows 8 can take some getting used to.
I am disabled and needed a good computer for college classes online since I cannot attend a regular campus.
It has been sent to their depot and returned not working and now at this moment another call to the technician.
Had to purchase a download for Windows Office ( Another $100.00).
The Office is web based.
Shut down after 2 hours & would not start up again.
I bought this product 2 month ago, however since around one week, It doesnt work, furthemore It looks like it was manufacturing in a wrong way because the housing cover located on the bottom of the computer is like half open.
Windows 8, however, is not very user friendly and the tutorial leaves something to be desired.
Plugging in headphones worked to help.
I tried contacting Dell but they actually CHARGE FOR THEIR CUSTOMER SERVICE REPS STARTING AT $30 TO ASK THEM QUESTIONS.
The partial answer is to go to the desktop app and use that.
Windows 8 takes getting used to.
Well now I have to say responsibly That after a few weeks trying to get in Touch with dell client service Attended They finally my request.
ill give amazon a call.
Beware of the dated wireless card however.
However, Dell must have their heads examined for leaving out the msata slot which should have been on the daughterboard of this new-generation power system as directed by a Dell techie.
There was a psicological trick used to buy it in a hurry and two weeks later was a little cheaper.
it was a gift for my mother and she loves it.
Recommended for everyone who takes his/her device everywhere all the time.
The 100 Gb disk space on Google drive free for two years gives you a great possibility to share your data across different devices (I use a laptop, tablet, and Chromebook)
Mine was lasted for five month.
We use this in school, and in the first week that the school gave them to use, at least 30 out of 200 people broke it.
Two years free verizon 3G is OK, only 100 MB of data per month.
It has replaced a windows notebook as my business travel companion.
Seriously, until Google recognizes that some people really want to be able to print out a hard copy, and implement some sort of local usb download/install of a driver to local linux kernel, they only have an interesting toy for anyone who needs to print.
And no help from Google by phone.
The item was advertised as coming with 2 years of free Verizon 3G service.
com customer service has been terrible in dealing with the problem.
Many scratches on mine after only a week.
Just as stated in message - This shipment was shipped & received on time, worked Great, and was in Good Condition.
This computer did not meet our needs, we had to return.
and the integrated computer processing unit is also worthless.
it becomes packaged carefully, but it takes time to get the box open.
Bought this one for my daughter for xmas and have bought another one from Tiger Direct cause Amazon was out of them.
Just ordered a Samsung Chromebook for my mother.
Intend to order another for my daughter.
However, The Samsung Chromebook has its own automatic Backup System as well as its own Security System.
The  price is over a hundred dollars for 2 years of 3g service.
The keyboard is surprisingly roomy for such a small device, but they decided to eliminate the delete key, and that will take some getting use to.
Verizon gives 100 mb per month for 2 years (included in price).
But the problem will be solved soon since the HTML5 draft has been completed and many developers will start to make great web apps.
THIRD, the power cord receptor rarely connectsFOURTH, Just try and find someone at Verizon that can help with your Chromebook data plan.
FIFTH, Try and find service.
I had to order a new cord within 2 months.
The second was your inability to modify the order.
The third was your inability to cancel the order.
Watch out about leaving the Mobile Data on as the Mobile Data is used even with a Wi-Fi connection.
I also fail to learn that theon the cloud data storage is free only for two years.
works well with external devices (Hard disks, Android phones).
Cons:try to open less tabs (reloads old tabs).
Did some research, with the help of a wonderful geek friend who explained the importance of processor type to me.
Light weight, easy to get started (with the exception of getting used to Windows 8), easy to use.
( IT KEPT ON SAYING IT LOST ALL PROGRAMS) They said it needed a new motherboard and HD.
Finally after a month I called them, now is when the nightmare begins.
(SO THEY SAY) I landed up paying after 13 months of owning it another > 180.00 besides the original cost.
I have a computer shop I can trust close by, the only reason I sent it to them to begin with because it needed the original ASUS programs reinstalled.
Buy another brand they use to be a great product, use to be is right!
Now Im searching for a laptop with windows 7.
I got this computer for $480 on the cyber Monday lightning deals, which I must say was a steal.
I have tried running them simultaneously in 3 different browsers and found no lag whatsoever.
This of course can be resolved by getting another hard drive and installing the operating system back on to the computer without the added Asus apps.
I ordered two of this computers, and imagine my surprise when I realized the first one had problems  with the spacebar (not as responsive as it should be), and the second one booted once and then stop booting.
Plan on using headphones or external speakers for this one.
I bought this laptop on Cyber Monday Sale for a total of $545, after tax and shipping.
This laptop drops that internet connection several times a day.
However, Amazon was willing to think outside the box and help a grad student by issuing me a refund while I kept my laptop so that I could reorder it (private seller) and then return it when I received the new one.
The computer has two sockets for memories for those of you who want to upgrade that as well.
I asked Amazon, as an alternative to solve this issue, to replace the broken part (Atheros AR9485) and I was willing to pay for the transportation from the US to Costa Rica, but they were not willing to do so...
got this for son for collage he really loves it and for the price we paid was perfect for him
A Windows 8 for dummy summary should be sent with each purchase.
out of no-where my entire hard drive was shot and now the entire computer wont work, even took it to three computer repair shops.
Awesome computer for the money.
I had some wireless connectivity problems, because of the power saving features, and found a fix on the HP tech support page (they use the same wireless card).
Process One:Step 1: Select Control PanelStep 2: Select Hardware and SoundStep 3: Select Device ManagerStep 4: Open Network Adapters List by clicking on nameStep 5: Select Atheros AR9485Step 6: Right Click and Select PropertiesStep 7: Select tab titled "Power Management"Step 8: UNCHECK or DESELECT the option button which says "Allow the computer to turn off this device to save power"Step 9: Hit OKProcess Two:Step 1: Select Control PanelStep 2: Select Hardware and SoundStep 3: Under Power Options, Select Change Battery Settings, Left ClickStep 4: Under HP Recommended Power Plan, Select Blue Link Titled "Change plan settings"Step 5: Under Blue Link Titled "Change advanced power settings"Step 6: Look for TAB Titled "Wireless Adapter Settings", Open this selection by clicking on left mouseStep 7: Open Menu Power Saving, for on battery and plugged in, Select "Maximum Performance" VICE "Low Power Savings" *Make sure to do both settings for battery and plugged in.
Now to the computer.
At intermittent times the touchpad goes haywire when pluggged into AC outlet.
talked to ASUS tech and he told me to wipe everything and restart my system thus had to reload all my information including games (had to start over from the beginning).
HP, Gateway sent them for free to me while ACER charged me 19 dollars.
Ordered it Monday night at the free shipping rate which was 5-8 days.
Apparently they had delivered it to the wrong address, but had to get a report from the driver to figure out where it had gone.
This is the only laptop in the office and lots of people use it in the conference room to facilitate demonstrations in meetings.
I am glad I had another system in the house to take of business while learning how to do things on Windows 8.
I finally called ASUS; I was "assisted" (loosely used) by an extremely mechanical rep reading his scripts who referred me to Microsoft.
Microsoft referred me back to the manufacturer - ASUS - as it was their responsibility since they pre-loaded the computer.
And I have never had any problems with internet connectivity; I have full bars right now, despite having a router on the opposite end of my house.
He is extremely happy with the CPU horsepower and disk capacity.
Dell rebate = smoke & mirrors - never again; Amazon great.
Intentionally purchased w Windows7 vs 8, so eligible for $15 Dell / Windows8 rebate after purchase of $15.
Never found rebate page which was supposed to be preloaded or online and after 5 hrs of phone time with Dell settled for very limited $25 credit.
After multiple Dell computers, this experience has turned me off from future business with them.
Suggest to Others they consider alternate brands.
Recieved Unit and plugged in to charge Battery.
Unit now charges and no additional issues have been found.
Glad that the unit did not come with alot of software demos (including anti-virus)that must be removed.
The computer is exactly as advertised.
OR (B) Replace the entire system altogether.
I chose option (B).
Then, I have to wait another 5-7 business days for the new system.
This will be followed by having to completely re-install my programs that I will need for my college classes, as well as all of my personal games, and the programs my daughter uses for her high school classes and her music career.
They sent me a new (and slightly different) battery for the laptop overnight.
com was higher will shop amonzon  first from now on  nice price fast dlv..
I had an Asus prior to this purchase and had also lost a key - I think they need to upgrade the quality of their keyboard if they want to retain customers.
When Microsoft 8 was invented.
Why switch back and forward between web pages.
Update:Laptop died today.
I bought this for my daughter - she took some time getting used to windows 8 but loves the machine
I have a RMA number and have to package the warranted laptop at my expense ( two inches of padding in a box, the paper work specifies).
Will update when returned.
Requesting windows 7 on the return paperwork.
A friend told me Dell will send you a return box, ASUS makes you pay for your own, $15.90 for laptop box, WOW!Update: Hard drive went bad , ASUS replaced and installed HD in one day and sent it back out.
It appears that a faulty hard drive has been the plague of this computer and after speaking to my daughter I have given this system three stars instead of one.
Update: 8/30/2013Sent back to support for what appears to be another bad hard drive, will update when received.
Have new RMA shipping to ASUS for the third time.
Recieved today (11/15//2013 , they are fast ) repaired again, replaced keyboard for function error and replaced hard drive again.
Very unorganized support and damage claim system, so beware of the accident protect ASUS advertises.
Been computing since the commodore 64 days(my cassette player was my prized possession.)
Many keys on the keyboard stopped working in 6 months.
I have to say for other name brands with this set up I was looking at anywhere from $600-$900 and they all had terrible reviews (Toshiba, Samsung, Dell just to name a few).
I took a chance after much deliberation and the need to save money.
Got this for my wife after her old HP DV5040 finally died.
delivered on time - removed from box and started to set up - then I realized the "s" key was not working.
Packed it up and called for a return pick up.
The scroll bars are a little challenging to get the hang of at first, but it comes pretty quickly.
Purchased for my college student daughter.
Came fast, started to work next day.
But Windows 8 is a stripped down bare bones OS... Plan on adding a couple hundred dollars of software.
Arrived with the same key board issue as the other laptop purchased (and returned) two weeks ago.
Every time she goes to a site, it is slower then old dial-up.
OK, got the low down... PC had to have been shipped with virus.
since day one this computer ran slow simalar to computers 20 years ago.
I called there tech support line on day two and three.... there phones were down,......
called them on day 4 and spoke to a foriegen tech agent from India.... who could barely speak English.
After they went through my computer they announced they could fix for $110.00.
My brother who too is attending college as an audio engineering major has already put his order in for his.
Webcam works great for Skype, track pad responds well, and the number keys on the side is a perk!
I have bought an Aspire (3.5 years old), and a Dell (2 years old) and both of those are still going strong being used by my kids and husband.
Great gaming and traveling computer!
My college student (son) is very happy!
This is able to play the most up to date games (on lower settings)
Screen broke after 3 months, hard drive crashed after 11 months.... threw it away after 12 months of horrible use.
For $429.00 the deal is hard to beat.
After two weeks of use, the hard drive died.
(May have been related to a power-surge/brown-out.)
Shipped the unit in for repair and they are taking care of everything.
Contacted ASUS customer service immediately but they were not able to resolve the issue.
My husband fall in love with mine and bought another one.
Great for the money... paid well under 500 bucks on amazon.
She loves the color!
Had this cpu for a couple of months now and LOVE it.
I was not prepared for windows 8, however I am learning more and more everyday.
VIDEO is just greatwonderful GRAPHICS beautiful look and just the perfect size to carry around to the local starbucks and coffee shop.
In March the shell started separating and then pieces of plastic got in the way of the fan due to the defective design of the hinges and caused the fan to cut a number of wires.
In the forms the hinges have been known to give way in as little as 6 months with just routine opening and closing.
Great Notebook for business or home...
Came as advertised.
Windows 7 launched and operated correctly and without hiccups.
Boxed it back up for return, never even turned it on.
5 stars for the seller TigerDirect, 5 stars for Amazon.
com (I sell and buy on Amazon, and I love the way they handle this business), and more than 5 stars for this wonderful laptop.
In fact, in the last 4 years, I have own laptops from Dell, Asus, Apple MacBook (which I returned), Samsung, Sony (which I have just returned today).
The Notebook has never worked for the amount of time (battery life) it claimed to work for.
Two are Windows 7 pro and two are Windows 8 pro; one disk has the operating system and the second has drives and HP utilities.
HP adds a layer of security controls on the system that oversees the fingerprint scanner, MS windows firewall and security essentials.
There is HDD encryption software, face recognition and other levels of protection.
His words - "Awesome".
However, the apparent inability to swap graphic cards cost it a star.
Just a Laptop soon to be obsolete.
After couple of weeks, it started having a blue screen problem: Suddenly, the screen was becoming blue and was shutting down, without warning.
The USB ports transfers files very quickly from your flashdrive to the hard drive.
Also, you can choose how to secure the computer when you log on; you can do a password, facial recognition (the webcam takes care of this), or fingerprints (there is a finger scanner).
Very easy to set up and connect to existing printer and internet service.
Had to return product, wait for credit, and then place another order for the same computer from another seller.
It is just that HP has its own front end graphics controller tool (software)and that is what the system info reports.
This computer is money well spent.
presented as a win7 system with license to "upgrade" to Win8.
Loyal Dell consumer for 18+ years finally convinced with this ProBook.
Bought this laptop for family and installed Windows 8 Pro with the included discs.
All software for Camera and Biometric reader found on HP support site.
This laptop came with both windows 7 & windows 8 which was the motivator behind my decision being I am a old school user like win 98 & XP.
I also went to the local big box store and played with the other brands in this class of computers.
However, we had serious trouble with the wireless card (a Qualcomm Atheros); it kept losing the internet and then the network - connectivity lasted 2 minutes at a time, tops.
We first discovered that the driver on it was for Windows 8 (not 7, which was the installed OS); however, rolling it back to a compatible driver did not work.
We sent the computer in to HP to have the wireless card replaced, but when they did that, they also replaced the OS with Windows 8 Pro (because that was what the sticker on the bottom said)!!
And when we did that, we lost the biometrics (fingerprint scan) capabilities (and who knows what else).
(The application and drivers do not appear to be on the back-up discs.)
Go to YouTube and search HP ProBook 4540s.
Of course, thats just my own personal preference.- Decent battery life  about 5 hours worth of moderate use (i. e. surfing the web + streaming videos + Microsoft Word + editing software)- Automatic internet connection even after hours of idleness.
item did not come with proper drives installed, it was advertised as completehad to get computer service to update
The laptop is per expectation and beyond.
Getting used to only two USB ports has been an adjustment.
The manufacturer, VIZIO reply that when they send to amzon, confirmed that is new one.
Ethernet port is incorrectly built, so connector must be jiggled into and held at a certain angle to maintain connectivity and must be literally taped in place to not fall out.
The computer has a beautiful deisgn (similar to the 15" MacBook Pro).
I havve been having a problem with the keyboard typing doublle letters that I have not been able to fix by increasing the delay in the keyboard manager in control panel.
The driver for the keeypad is from Microsoft from 2006.
The hashtag is #viziokeyboard.
So have been on the fence about getting this device for awhile now.
all in all this notebook flies, if you can keep a open mind with windows 8 and want to learn a new system you will love it!
com/OCZ-Technology-2-5-Inch-Industrys-Warranty/dp/B007RARHSO/ref=sr_1_2?s=electronics&ie;=UTF8&qid;=1355440996&sr;=1-2&keywords;=ssd+256+gb
Notebook arrived with defected keyboard.
;( Sadness...
It was dead on arrival.
The boot up is so fast, I am starting to learn windows 8.
Works well but after 3 months motherboard just die.
AFTER LOOKING AT AMAZON REVIEWS ON THIS LAPTOP, AND REVIEWS ON CNET.
There is no CD drive, Microsoft Office is NOT installed (pay separately for that), but it does connect to the internet (google docs etc) and has notepad for basic text documents.
Ended up selling it on CL for a $200 loss.
Hope to send to Beijing, China directly.
This after updating and installing windows 8.1.
)I LOVE THE NO JUNKWARE this is what sets  Vizio apart from the competition.
!Drop price to 899.00 this will sell out.
can buy better ones with the money possibly
No heating whatsoever after working hours.
For $750?
One caveat: after getting used to these speeds you can never go back to using regular computers
Got this for just $799 + taxes on Cyber Monday, the deal was just for several hours on the Microsoft Store.
I opened up a very beautiful laptop designed in California (which was important enough to note on the side of the box).
2 seconds later, the Vizio logo shows upthen nothing.
Diagnosis: No operating system, no bios, no nothingexcept a Vizio logo and a beautiful laptop paperweight (designed in California, if you wanted to know).
;lkjfdsthen keyboard locks updiscovered the J key would release the keyboard then ;lkjfdsthen lock up.
Then back on line using another computer to in a service chat and they had me recovery my laptop.
Turns out I didnt buy it from Amazon, I bought it from Casol Electronicsand Casol is not an authorized dealer of ViziothereforeNO WARRANTY!To boot, I was outside of the 30 day Amazon electronics return, so no help there eitheruntil I logged into an Amazon chat dialog.
Imagine a brand new 1500$ laptop that is a week old and you have to pay for support?
However, getting used to Windows 8 is a painful process.
The only problem is the networking capabilities are not the best, however, that is possibly a problem with the wifi on campus and sometimes the keys get stuck, but tap them a couple times and they come right up.
Fast and good balance design and set of features for home & office use.
The computer is nice, but they temperature are high.
the equipment purchased through amazon.
Two months after buying this it is unusable.
Not yet they have found no solution for him.
A little expensive for me, since I live in Argentina, and I have spent around 1870 dollars(final in my office), but to my 50 years, I prepare some gifts, since life is very short to save money.
"Sony Vaio SVE1712BCXB 17.3" 2.80GHz i7-3840QM 16GB 500GB SSD AMD 7650M FullHD Windows 8 BD-ROM"Thanks Amazon!
Looking for Sony repair center now.
It was determined PC had to be sent in for repairs.
HP claims 2 days, however with all the shipping time it will be closer to a total of 2 weeks.
Update, PC returned, items not fixed or tested.
Screw missing from bottom of unit.
After 24 hours of use, Windows 8 failed.
I then purchased Windows 7 (at additional expense) and everything works great.
Just getting used to windows 8, not to bad after a while.
Not to mention unhappy with vendor.
Paid for expedited service and  product took 10 days to arrive.
Windows 8 sucks, she could not get computer to work because the update removed certain drivers.
we sent the laptop back and are now looking for new one without windows 8.
Windows 8 is different, but easy after getting to know it.
Win8 not so bad as people writing)I bought factory refurbished dv7-7212nr (first time experimenting with refurbished pc, to try save some money), everything is working perfect,BUT the left side of laptop is scratched (both - display and bottom), another scratch is at front side near to touchpad (like dropped knife),panel between touchpad and stickers (where you put your right hand) makes noise (like it is not mounted)Next time will buy new pc =)
The only cons are the heat where you lay your palm when typing get hot when gaming.
The only unconvenience was windows 8, wich was upgraded to windows 7.
Again with windows 7 installed, the computer performed outstandingly, without even the slightest hiccup even at very demanding tasks.
However, leave it to American ingenuity to develop an add-on that transforms the W8 experience.
Search for START 8, download for $5.
Bought 2 of these computers for my girls to use in middle school.
They are very light and easy for them to carry around.
only possible complaint is have a bit of trouble with the space bar - sometimes it doesnt space and have to go back and press again.
there are two usb jacks, an sd port, a place to plug in a chord for internet, and a place to plug up another computer monitor, it also has an hdmi port.
The space bar stopped working within the first 30 days.
Takes a little time to get used to as some of the keys are in a different location and the keyboard is flat.
The new ASUS laptop arrived on time and undamaged in factory packaging.
The keyboard issue occurred the first  day after heavy use.
The Backspace, Arrow keys and the D key (there may be others too), stopped working.
As explained on the tomshardware.
When I contacted the Seller (Two Cougars) about return policy, they did not even respond.
Wifi keep getting disconnected, no reliable internet connection (same time all other wireless devices working fine), also not fast as expected, had to return it.
(UPDATE - scroll down)I selected this Ultrabook because of the following reasons:- small (under 3 lbs), 13" or 14"- screen resolution of 1600 pixels or above- non-glare screen (most important point)- SSD 128 GB- Win7 (but would accept win8 now also..)Price was 859$After 2 days I realized the background light is defect.
13" and 1080 pixels is too small for normal websites, the standard setting for font size is now 125%.
Eventually the machine kept getting stuck in BIOS when resuming from sleep.
I took the machine back to the store (A Microsoft store) and the replacement suffered the exact same problem after about 12 hours.
It failed in just over a month and had to be shipped to the factory for repair on October 23, 2013.
Customer service was poor in finding information on the repair and the time frame it would take.
This computer came with a pirated version of Windows 7 and a copy of Office 2003 that had a bogus keycode.
I had to get an A-Z  refund and buy all new operating and software for the computer.
It had been wiped clean and was ready to go out of the box.
My teenage daughter needed a laptop for her virtual schooling.
contacted the seller about the potential problem in authenticating Microsoft Windows and seller immediately emailed back with the proper key to ensure there would be no problem.
The laptop would only come on and stay on when plugged into circuit.
When unplugged, the laptop immediately shuts down.
Rating of  0% due to insultingly poor service.
this unit is built to last!
Then the screen picked up a green line through the middle and then the bottom third turned purple.
(mac book anyone??).
Graphics is great (Not for Hardcore Gaming) -Just the basics.
Try Computer Kings they do not charge tax.
And built in cam.
I bought this Lenovo ThinkPad Edge after the motherboard died on my previous laptop (which Id owned for over 4 years).
Fortunately I was able to look up these problems online (where it quickly became apparent that there were lots of other frustrated customers who were also suffering the same problems) and solve them with the solutions posted on some internet forums.
Secondly, the Wifi and the Network & Sharing Centre were not working correctly: the wifi kept dropping out and the Network & Sharing Centre would continually freeze and crash and would not work again until the computer was restarted.
First off, there is no email support  only via phone.
Failing that, they actually had the nerve to suggest that my best option was to BUY another one year warranty from Lenovo and then fix the problem when I was next back home.
Weeks went by and no response.
I lost all of my data that hadnt been backed up (I hadnt been able to do a back-up for several months).
I messaged Lenovo on Facebook explaining the situation and received another unhelpful reply just telling me to phone their customer service number (and of course, pay for the privilege).
Bought the service plan and it also works great - have used it twice to have viruses removed.
After three months of using the laptop,its start crashing repeatedly.
My daughter wants one now.
Great laptop for the money (<$500).
It has everything required (and more) by her college professors.
Arrived on time and in good working order!
The key board is super comfortable.
Husband has never used a computer- he has had no problems with it.
ONCE THE CHARGER IS DISCONNECTED FROM THE LAPTOP, THE INDICATOR COMES BACK ON.
After trying out Windows 8 products in stores, I decided to stay with the traditional look of Windows 7.
After 5 unsuccessful service calls, I returned the laptop to Amazon and bought another brand of laptop with a recessed mousepad.
As soon as I recieved it I had to call Dell and have their techs take control of the laptop to install a new wi-fi chip..( which I ended up having to finish.
We were concerned we wouldnt be able to register the product in our name but we were.
The first has taken a year and a half of going back and forth to school with  a now 17 year old and still works great.
This laptop was bought to replace a four year old laptop using Windows Vista.
Best computer I have ever owned both personal and laptop, and I worked at a computer store for 6 years.
I purchased this lap top as a raffle prize for our office Christmas party.
First one  we bought was over ten years ago and is quite the workhorse!
(2.)
She needed a replacement immediately to complete her course work.
This laptop did the trick and was delivered promptly right to her and saved the day.
This computer will not stay on the internet even when it is within 3 feet of the card.
We have another Dell laptop that stays on the internet when 30+ feet from the Mifi.
They have not been able to resolve the issues.
Our future purchases will not be from Amazon, rather from a local store that we can work with.
No information booklets were sent in the box with the laptop.
which means the computer was died.
Not surprisingly, as soon as I had the computer set up I started having internet connection issues even though my previousDell laptop (now 6 years old) and other devices in the house do not have problems staying connected.
The bottom line is that Dell doesn,t want to be in the personal computer business and builds average products.
Bought the laptop for my husband and he loves it.
Was impressed at the ease of setting up the system on line.
We will definately continue to shop at Amazon.
Nowherre in web site was a statement that computer would be without system disks.
One of my old printers needed system disks for drivers with Windows Seven.
So fat, no respone from printer manuafacture on where to get drivers.
Changing an operating system and moving forward is a road littered with cobblestones!
After 3 months of light use it seems to be overheating and randomly shuts down.
Now I have to deal with warranty repairs and figure out what to do without a computer for several weeks.
The last 2 have both been the model listed here, although unfortunately from another vendor (Newegg) where I ended up paying $50 more per unit than current Amazon price.
This laptop has a maximum memory of 8GB with 2 memory slots, one of which comes empty from factory, so I also purchased a 4GB memory upgrade for this laptop (approx $40).
Product ordered was: Kingston 4GB 204-Pin DDR3 SO-DIMM DDR3 1600 Laptop Memory Model KVR16S11/4; works great!I, like others, tried out Windows 8 on demo laptops at local retailers (only Windows they had available) and really hated it.
This one is a disaster from top to bottom.
stay in overseas ,still love to shopping with AMAZON!
Bought for school.
After getting the OS updated to 8.1 (from 8) and starting to get it setup for use I shut it down for the night.
Working with HP support I discovered that the PC had already been registered by someone else and only 2 months were left on the original 1 year warranty.
minus 1 star for slow shipping,tried amazon prime trial run,didnt help.
The major problem is having to use a adapter to the internet, but not a HUGE deal.
The biggest drawback is Windows 8.
PRICE:  According to the email flyer received yesterday, one can buy this for $899 at Costco.
The first it happened after 8 months of purchasing it.
The next time, it happened a month after the warranty (2 years).
My son bought this for school and gaming.
The graphics are fantastic and he has had no problems playing any of his games!
good pr,oduct, could use more hp support for windows 8  operating system  novice computer  users very confused  took days to find help
The Magazine "LAPTOP" he Pulse Of Mobile Tec February 2013, has an aricle devoted to Windows 8 entitled "Windows 8 start up guide".
There were some cumbersome differences with Windows 8 that took time to get used to.
My daughter loves the laptop.
They need Excel, Word and Powerpoint :(
Made my son very happy  , took it for a test run ,before, he opens it for Christmas.
Great deal for the money!
CD drive door did not get the proper quality control when assembled and installed.
Had a little trouble with the windows 8 setup, but a phone call to HP resolved the problems.
Sometimes when the power cord was unplugged from the wall t screen would go black and te only way to get the screen back was to turn the computer off by holding down the power button.
Already returned and got a laptop from another company.
After having a regular start button installed all is well.
Last week hard drive died.
I purchased this computer on a lightning deal back around Thanksgiving.
Also, in the last month and a half, Internet Explorer has become very unstable.
IE now stops responding and closes down at least once a day (I work all day on another computer)during the 2-3 hours I may use it.
This causes constant reloading and constant searching out what was up before.
Windows 8 is the worst windows operating system to dateNot sure where they were going with this.
Just set it up so it is ready to go on Christmas morning.
Received this in two days, fast service
My parents are not technologically inclined, so after learning it was running on Windows 8, which I had never used before, I knew I would have to learn it myself and then teach them how to use it.
Especially for only 379.99(Black Friday deal)
Keep up the great work and ill order again.
if there was a way to turn this computer back to windows 7 from windows 8 which came pre loaded on the system.
The start up and shut down are really quick.
Used for about a month now mainly for Bookkeeping with Quickbooks but very fast on the web.
I bought this computer for my daughter for her school work and for online social networking.
She loves it and was thrilled to see it on the day that it arrived.
It was everything she asked for in a computer and well worth the price!!
The other drawback is the #@$&%$ operating system is Windows 8.
Must be something in the bios that refuses to work with better operating systems.
I t is taking some time to get use to the windows 8 operating system and finding the functions on the laptop.
She had had it for about 2 months now and loves it.
Computer  is user friendly he loves it.
He uses it for his communication .
No problems he uses this computer  up to 14 hours a day.
However a few days into using the computer and now I can no longer get on the internet.
Bought this computer for our daughter.
However after eight months and very little use, the hard drive died.
It took them 2 days to solve the problem.
After getting acclimated to Windows 8, this HP is very fast and simple to use.
After only two weeks the harddrive crashed!!
I purchased this as the primary computer for out home based business, and after I have downloaded all my programs onto it, I now need to exchange it!
:(
All in all, great deal for the money.
now after about 5 months of daily use, its pretty fast.
the processor and graphics card are ok.(it can play 1080p video with out noticable lag) and a perfect computer for the average person.
Windows 8 is taking a while to get used to.
Windows 8 takes some getting used to.
I recived this computer with the worst operating system in my books (windows 8) only two weeks went by and under normal use the compjter could not keep up then the hard deive blew out and allready its in for service glad i have a warrenty from hp.
I spent multiple hours on the telephone with "customer service" and they did not help at all.
The computer randomly shuts down and will not operate.
This laptop is meant mainly for internet use with some office productivity on the side.
tanks for mi new laptop.
this is a great laptop I be on this every day this is my baby I love it so much I decided to buy three more lap top for my two sons and my friend.
Of course it was just after the Amazon return deadline.
Shipping it back to Hewlett P for repair under their warranty.
Update: Two more returns to HP for more repairs and now, at the eve of the end of the factory warranty, the keyboard is not working, again.
We finally decided to upgrade to a laptop after our 5 year old desktop with Windows 7 Home premium started showing signs of wearing out.
After much research I finally decided to go with the HP G6.
There is very little in the box other then the laptop, power cord, and quick start guide.
You had over three years to develop your new operating system and this is what you come up with???
When I tried to set up my new laptop to do the same it quickly became apperent that rules had been changed.
Easy setup and lightning quick browsing(Use chrome).
It was the Anti virus tool and Windows Defender clash.
Then install the HP updates and followed by Microsoft updates.
And am going to buy a Mac Air.
in the specs online).
It took longer to get than other items ordered from Amazon.
Win 8 only option, no windows 7 drivers.
Touchpad and cursor would not work after two days trying to get them going.
Plug a usb mouse in and had cursor.
after the first couple days, it is great.
The start up speed is phenomenal and the computer operations themselves are flawless.
In fact, I gave up trying to understand the whole "tile thing" (as I am a diehard Apple/Mac fan) and ended up giving this brand new computer to my husband.
I bought this laptop on a whim hating every new windows system they ever came out with.
The computer repair shop says that they dont have speakers for this particular laptop at their vendor.
HelloI bought this for my daughter who had saved up for 10 weeks to purchase this laptopShe was SO excited to finaly get it in the mailFinally she has a laptop powerful enough to play higher graphic games with her friends with.
From the beginning of the process of choosing and ordering my new computer, Toshiba made it simple.
I love learning and using the Windows 8 tile Operating System.
I had a coworker who owned a Dell for five years and used it constantly for his job.
this is great used equipment and the refurbish job, including the upgrade to Windows 7 make it run like new.
The product was shipped as promised and arrived on time.
The unit arrived in a couple of days.
Purchased this for friends that needed a new computer on a budget.
Yet after learning how to work the totally different Windows I will never go back.
The keyboard is similar to Mac Books yet the key stroke firmer and helps from accidently hitting the wrong key.
This computer was bought for my daughter and she loves it.
The application (camera, music, videos) and also the browser take a lot of time to open.
Problems never resolved after 2 months with Dell.
1) Wireless connection in my home inconsistent at best, drop-out of connection ever 5-10min (not the case with any other device in my home).
This is perfect for just starting out and for school projects.
They are so happy with them.
We had bought 4 bundle deals from best buy @ $299 each.
REPLACED OLDER DELL LAPTOP COMPUTER.
Spent hrs to configure internet but no luck.
Received one as a gift and purchased the other one for our son.
AFTER ONE MONTH, 2 WEEKS, AND 3 ARGUMENTS LATER (BECAUSE THEY TRIED TO CHARGE ME $300 AAFFTTEERR QUOTING ME $127) I STILL HAVE A BROKEN LAPTOP!THEY ACTUALLY TOOK MY MONEY AND STILL SENT IT BACK BROKEN!
This one broke after just one week, and had to be sent back to Lenovo.
Toshiba Satellite C855D-S5302 - terrible laptop computer.
It is the first time we have used Windows 8, and runs very fast on her laptop.
com/forum/laptop/ref=cm_cd_fp_ef_tft_tp?_encoding=UTF8&cdForum=Fx2G99T61XZXSS7&cdThread=Tx36ZK8NFC9EMIS
the team has failed with the operating system restarts each time, you change the windows and has the same fault, the screen turns blue and a white letters appear.
The computer will download at 7.5 Mbps when the 6 year old laptop it replaced connects at 39.48 Mbps.
I am on the third try with HP to get this fixed, the have tried drivers and settings, replaced the network card, and now I am shipping the computer back to them.
gave it out as a gift therefore has no personal hands on experience with it now.
The seller has closed their return policy thus I am stuck with a worthless crap I paid almost $400.00 for
Received the "NEW" laptop from PacificTech preloaded with SPYWARE, MALWARE & VIRUSES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
After having a weeks worth of wanting to smash the laptop with a hammer, I finally was able to figure out the PROBLEM and had to REMOVE more than 980+ SPYWARE, MALWARE & VIRUSES that were preloaded!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
new in sealed box.
Maybe they will bring back the old Start button as rumored.
took 4 hours to set everything up on Windows 8 due to Microsoft wanting to control everything (had to recreate accounts for Skype and email) and not giving proper instructions.
After ~8 months of use the wireless adapter started having problems, randomly stopped working and could only connect to the network after restarting the computer.
she is very happy .
I purchased this computer around August 1, and two days later I had have the operating system re-installed.
Called HP and tech worked on it and got it to work, and once I agreed to let them close the ticket, and hung-up and I try to reconnect using the Windows 8 homepage and the same thing happen.
Missing being able to return it to Amazon by 8 days and now the fight is on between me and HP.
I just got this computer back from HP repair shop for internet problem that I was having and HP is not a company that you should trust in that they will do everything they can to not honor the warranty.
I had contacted BBB, California Department of Consumer Protection and Kentucky Attorney General about the problems I was having with this computer and HP has not responded to any of these businesses or government agencies.
Windows 8 takes some getting used to.
Low HD capacity (100gb)  & ram memmory (4gb).
However, I have paid %18  tax (for living in Europe)these are increasing the cost.
Could not get the first one to run, spent 8 hours working on it and finally gave up and sent it back.
The 2nd one has wireless connection issues and after a week of torture trying to use it I am sending it back as well.
Bought this laptop through the Post Exchange.
Dell Inspiron 17/3" is less expense (approx $400) and is infinately better in construction and support.
The Company was quick to send the machine, and  was also quick with the return money back.
The laptop comes with the A6 AMD built in graphics that has 512 mb onboard and use up to 3.5 gb of system memory to compliment it, for a total of 4gb video memory (512 mb onboard & 3.5gb shared).
(At medium graphics settings).
I also downloaded a free start bar menu online which is the same as Windows 7.
Not in a position to return.
Totally useless, the brightness keeps resetting on its own and the charging system keeps stopping at 79% then the brightness goes dark.
Also has a discrete graphics card which is nice, have played games like skyrim and oblivion on it no problem (it uses intel HD for lower processes like email, surfing.. saves battery life).
It started acting up a few days prior (the cursor would get stuck for a few seconds, then catch up with where I had wanted to move it).
Who knows what else would break down in the future.
They helped me find the bios key for sony vaio SVE14A27CXH / sve14ae13l.
( turn off.
press the red assist key to boot)Please note: I do not run windows and I did not make the recovery disk.
DId some homework & found that it was a consumer reports best buy.
She does not want to reccomend anyone buting off her.
I bought this laptop from Best Buy back in November 2012 and I just love everything about it from the backlit keyboard which makes operation easy in a dark room at night to the ease of Windows 8 Professional.
The computer was great, for two weeks.
That is where the problem lives, the marriage of the two.
When the two combine to make one unit and the system is shut down there is a major battery drain.
When the laptop is turned off the battery from the keyboard will try to keep the tablet charged and it will drain the entire system within 12-24 hours.
com, support, Consumer Support Forum and enter "Envy x2 battery drain" in the search you will find a 12 page thread dealing with this.
I researched and planned for this computer and thought I had found one that would meet all my needs.
The ordering service was good and the package came on time and well wrapped.
Then I noticed that the keyboard had the letters in the wrong order.
This HP came from a dealer and not purchased directly from Amazon.
superfast start for internet and company net access.
Navigating between the apps and the internet takes a little getting used to with Windows 8 though.
Microsoft support could not even get the laptop to accept my anti-virus software (McAfee).
I ordered this for my mom for mothers day and she absolutely loved it.
After downloading the free Classic Shell from the Internet and installing it, I now have the old start menu back and I have a choice to use Metro GUI by selecting Shift + Window key.
Bought because it advertised windows XP\Office, it does come with a starter pack of Office but expires after 30 days.
This is only after 4 months of ownership.
Within two weeks of ownership, the display starts showing random dark lines on the display.
He is "HI-TECH" so I had to do a lot of active listening to him about what "his" system requirements would be.
It was very portable for her as she was in a boarding school.
Good things about this system:Good battery lifeQuality screenLight weightQuality buiildCan do a homegroup share with Win 7Great for reading books (amazon app)Netflix works quite nicelyCan remote to office locationLow priceThe not so good things about this system;No logical driveNo windows 8 pro
Calling the ASUS buyer support with a totally new operating system like windows 8 (touchscreen) very deficient is an understatement.
I have spent two days trying to figure out which account I need to enter every time I am asked for ID.
Besides they do not work on Saturdays, that is when I can experiment with the computer.
My daughter loves her new computer.... the size is perfect for all her needs but has alot of memory.
Broke 2nd day.
Requested a return and got ok to return and a number and returned the product.
Arrived well-packaged; easy to connect & get started.
Bought for an 11 year old boy to be used for school & perfect for starters.
My husband and I had decided to store the desktop and each get a laptop.
My favorite color (GREEN).
Windows 8 takes some getting used to.
Easy to use, very fast to sign on to the Internet.
Took it to a computer repair shop- they suggested that is not a wiring problem, but something wrong with the motherboard.
Next time people buy, do all the research of people!!
goes to sleep and boots up in seconds.
The 32 gig ssd helps.> The design is best in class.
the aluminium case and finish is top class.
Cons:> Heavy as per the competition.
My daughter loved it when she received it.
I know that everyone (including my daughters) nowadays has MacBook Airs and Pros, but I still prefer Windows based products and using Microsoft Office.
The computer failed within two days.
Luckily the notebook was under bestbuy warranty and they fixed it for free :)
Using these for my local church.
Two partitions and very poor instructions to change.
The computer is for a friend who is starting college in August.
Thirty days after buying it, the spacebar stopped working.
The entire system is well-designed and the speakers (Bang and Olufsen ICE) sound amazing.
The A10-4600m is a strong AMD CPU, able to compete with the comparablely priced Intel i3 & i5 CPUs.
Older games 3+ years old all run at high-ultra settings, including games like Fallout 3/NV, Oblivion, Age of Empires 3, Bully, Company of Heroes, Lord of the Rings BFME2, and many others without issues.
The colors are starting to not show up right *colors running together badly).
MUST BUY!!!!!
Even with the best, most current Virus protection, my hard drives have crashed twice in 14 months.
I have owned over five Toshibas and will continue to purchase them.
Calculated the battery life between 4 1/2 - 5 hrs.
AND, it has a long battery life which is great for when traveling.
The black color key board and faint-white letters are quite difficult for eyes in the night.
Good lil unit, need to upgrade to Win 8.1 right away.
Seller was on time and quick.
Likewise there are various keyboard shortcuts for accessing various areas of the system which can be found by doing a quick internet search.
I use this computer to take notes and record meetings.
Took a while to get used to the windows 8.
Awesome to use for college!
Happen to do a google search with the model number.
Found exact model for $499 available online at best buy, free shipping.
He wanted a computer that he could play games on and yet still be very mobile.
These are getting harder to find.
The only downside to these laptops is they come with Windows 8 preinstalled.
We got this lap top for my daughter for her enjoyment and school work.
Purchased two of these computers as gifts for our kids at Christmas.
One came with a dead and corrupt hard drive which left no gift for one child.
Still waiting for return labels from the seller to return the computer and get a refund.
Will buy the replacement at a local retailer.
Hoping to receive the promised return labels by email today.
I went to a computer store to buy windows 7 since i figured that I would just wipe the hard drive and put the OS i want on here, only to find out reformatting this computer is out of the question.
Also, three of the 4 usb ports where DOA, and we are still trying to get them fixed.
(doesnt draw fps so i dont know extacly what fps)I use Adobe Photoshop CS6 as well as Premiere and After Effects.
Also I use this computer paired with a Laptop Cooler (any).
Computer boots quickly, and is light as a feather.
A MacBook Air would have been a much better choice ... even with Windows installed (boot camp).
It came with Windows 7 Professional and additional software by Lenovo.
I was leaving the country for work abroad after a brief business trip back to the US.
Toshiba c875-S7304 17.3 inch at BestBuy for $329.00 plus 10% off on all Open Box Item at Colma, Daly City CA.
I had to first uninstall several of the programs on here (of course I instantly got rid of the bloatware), and then reinstall them in order for them to work (netflix, skype).
Windows 8 is definitely a user hostile operating system.
I have used a desktop for years and decided to go a route of mobility.
We bought two of these for our home business - one for my Wife and one for myself.
What a nice change to purchase a great laptop from another company for a change.
Another money maker for Microsoft.
Still learning how to navigate  around in Windows 8.
HP has not responded to emails and when we call about our guaranteed return suddenly nobody is on the other end.
to get a program to just write a simple letter, the app is $399.99 that is more then the laptop.
I recomend strongly for students (high school and college) here in venezuela.
My only problem is getting my kids to stay off my computer and use their own!
Easy to find help and recognizes other devices easily.
Went from Vista to Windows 8, many changes.
Decided to take the plunge and learn this new operating system.
Had to buy a new computer when my old one quit turning on.
Once you get used to the Windows 8 operating system the laptop performs well.
I called hp and they said that there were some of these that have corrupted files and you have to wait for them to send you repair discs.
(Per hp) You should not have to fix a computer when it is brand new.
am not happy at all ,to give money away.
From the windows updates to all the bloatware on the machine.
Added a 500gb ssd (samsung 840) and this thing flies.
Until now I contacted the customer service about 23 times, I had to send in the laptop three times!
and each time they said they had the final solution.
Now the guarantee expired with all the sending back and forth and they refuse to help me any further without paying.
This laptop was very slow (for email and web browsing, not for games or videos)from the beginning.
Then after three months of a very light use the laptop screen stopped working.
Also, trying to deal with Lenovo tech support is a drag.
finally gave up and sent it back
Lenovo warranty return policy is confusing, and requires a phone call to a call center that is overloaded and impossible to connect on a business day.
It did not take long for all the bad things to start happening with the new Lenovo with Windows 7, which happened with the Dell, HP, Sony and Toshiba computers now stored in the closet after their final demise.
Hang ups, crashes, restarts, slow downloads, uploads, no good software included in this Lenovo such as Office and the Norton security "freebie" went away after a month.
stay away from Toshiba computers,toshiba will not honor their warranty!
Got this for my wife whose old laptop died.
Will order again when I need another computer for the home.
Windows 8 takes some getting used to also,
Now the touch pad is broken within 2 months.
I did upgrade the touchpad driver (free upgrade) in order to access all the features, which made it possible to adjust the speed, drag, etc...
I got a refurbished one via warehouse deals, and installed Ubuntu 13.04 on it for my wife to use.
Dell does a great job with "user friendly" products.
There is an easy free update in the windows store to update to 8.1.
Still getting use to Windows 8, which is the greatest challenge.
The track pad is very responsive but it leaves a lot of permanent finger marks in very short order, shortly after staring to use it appeared as if it was being used for many months.
This computer was fully loaded... Word and Every programs needed to keep this machine in running order was already installed.
My 2 graanddaugters are starting high school and college!
Was able to set easily, new windows is great.
Sceen s clear and distinct.
This laptop is a good system for home because of the $299 ($325 total) price and Dell support.
I would recommend it to friend if they had a son or a son or daughter  going back to school.
This one had an incredible price($299 at the time).
I decided to go with a screaming deal on a windows 8 laptop.
Finally the fan ran constantly until the bios was updated from ao4 to ao6.
They sent a technician to replaced the screen.
There is a learning curve when trying to use Windows 8.
New Win8 system, trial softwares.
Had for 2 months and hard drive went out.
GREAT DEAL FOR THE MONEY.
A graduation gift for my son, perfect for the first year of college.
Its light enought for him travel an hour and a half to and from school, and carry it around all day.
great for kids in school.
I attempted to get some support via email and phone but my warranty is expired but they are willing to provide "fee based" support.
The next stop was the self help guide, which was over 700 documents to pick from.
REALLY I ended having an IT friend fix it and she went back to school and again not working now telling her she has no hard drive on a brand new computer.
Battery Life is amazing (i can go without charging for a four days on 3-4 hours of use a day).
A ACQUIRED THIS SYSTEM ABOUT 6 MONTHS AGO.
However, the two majors cons are memory and the mouse buttons.
The computer itself is fine, but it is taking some time to get used to (had Vista prior)
I use this computer to communicate with family and friends via email, Skype and other social media.
However, I do need to be able to look things up from home for work that are inaccessible on my cell phone, and it would not connect to the Internet after one day.
I was lucky to get this on sale for $299.
Had to get Dell to reinstall Windows 8.
I purchased this laptop back in May 2013 and finally upgraded the BIOS thanks to the review from D. Young on May 11th.
The fan was very noisy but after upgrading the BIOS per phone call with DELL, the fan is silent.
They are up to BIOS A09 now.
The phone rep from DELL that assisted was wonderful with helping.
I purchased at Best Buy in a bundle special which also included Webroot internet security, a wireless mouse and laptop sleeve for $349.99.
:)
The windows 8 drives me insane however.
Practical and comfortable computer to use.
My computer is now a piece of s*** from only having it after a couple weeks.
She can get on the internet and do some writing but I could not get her printer to work with this computer.
No instructions, confusing set up, I did not realize what a pain windows 8 was until I tried setting up this computer for her.
The only problem I have is the Windows 8 - I wish they would have sent a manuel on how to use Windows 8 with the computer.
Will always be a returning customer.
After wrestling with my old laptop, this one Is a dream machine.
The laptop no longer powers up and itis only 5 months old.
Gets frustrating when trying to move around.
Stay away from DealsoGood as a seller.
We bought this computer as a replacement of a ten year old Dell laptop running Windows XP.
We wasted over 8 hours trying to figure out the Windows, Live E-Mail and On-Line Internet chores and get them going.
Ted Lovell
Windows 8 takes some getting used to, but the computer is great!
However with a bit of searching I did find a good book on how to use windows 8Using Windows 8 (Computer Training)
This laptop was purchased for my daughter for college.
The greatest complaint is with Windows 8 operating system.
The systems takes it own control, the operating systems is not user friendly.
A simple light touch on the touch pad sends the computer jumping back and forth between the startup page and the desktop,  The keyboard is awkward to use and each letter seems to require a different amount of force to use.
Finally they have allowed corporate America to take over and the only icons that are easy to find are the ones that link you to a big website.
As soon as it was plugged in an error message appears "needs a Dell 65amp or higher" After spending over an hour running diagnostic tests the only option was to have someone from dell come to try to repair the computer.
Amazon gets 5 stars for a great return policy Dell gets 1 star for not testing equipment before it is shipped.
Bought this to replace an older Vista- based laptop.
The laptop they are inside, however, is not.
Used it for 6 months and the motherboard died.
Dead upon arrival.
Terrible waste of employee man hours, Dell only offered (after doing long distance diagnostics) to send a free box to send to Dell for repair and they would return it.
Finally did what we should have done from the start, return to Amazon.
the help of a Dell "techie", all is well.
Had to borrow a laptop from the library in order to do presentation.
I have since placed an order for an active HDMI to VGA adapter with audio capability from Amazon since most LCD projectors in use today have the VGA connector.
I did not use this computer right away and by the time I did, and set it up and decided I hated it, it was too late to return.
But some small bugs, which cause the computer system halted.
we used the laptop as a home computer for the whole family.
How did Microsoft allow Windows 13 out of their product testing department?
How did their customers become testing hamsters for all the flaws?
Takes no time to turn on and bring up new programs and webpages.
The first problem Dell sent a technician to my home to replace the hardware the next day - no charge no hardship, even followed up to make sure the service went satisfactory.
The second problem about the speaker, Dell technician upgraded the speaker software over the phone and the problem was taking care of.
Be sure to get the 3rd (newest) generation processor and window 8 - you would be very happy.
The only way to get back into is a hard restart.
Since I am from Brazil, I bought the computer to be delivered in Atlanta, GA which was and then to be sent to Brazil.
When the person in charge to bring it to Brazil was packing, the computer follow down and broken.
Shipping was fast and arrived in three days.
I even contacted the B&E; corp to explain the cause of not sending a charger.
It takes about 1 minute to boot to a useable state with 58 processes running in the background.
other purchases for computer
I bought a dell and I have high hopes for him and the first day I used it, and use it cost me, but after a few days I got used to use.
Now battling with Dell for transfer of warranty to my home region.
It was required for her senior math class.
She got a A in the Class the calculator worked excellently.
The Laptop is for my boy friend, he is station in afghanistan  and he is using to communicate with us at home.
:(
Recently found another problem with this laptop - Wireless adapter.
However, it is cursed with pre-installed Windows 8 (ugh).
Also, the exterior and interior surface fingerprint very easily and keeping them smudge-free is a constant task.
Added a $90 SSD drive cloned, used the internal drive in a $10 USB 3 SATA enclosure.
All they want to is track you.
Hope the old / New owner, Mr. Dell, can fix this!
THIS PURCHASED WAS BASED ON RECOMMENDATIONS FROM A FEW FRIENDS.
Also the Dan continually runs without stopping
So far this has been a great laptop for my child who is a student in school.
Have always bought Dell computers for both the home and throughout the office.
Bought the computer for my wife to do her school work on.
It continued to get worse until the computer would literally not turn on leaving my wife in a bind with her classes.
They instructed us to return it (our cost) and they would fix it and would wipe it clean.
When asked if they would reinstall office as she had a one time office download purchased through her school, they refused as they also did when we asked for just a different computer.
My wife was left with no way to remove her many photos and school documents from the device before we sent it back.
Our granddaughter loved this computer she will be taking it to Univ.
in the fall.
Save yourself time, money and aggravation and buy anything else.
Excellent choice for my daughter at school.
Had all the right Software and she loves it.
I had an old HP that was 3 years old and it kept crashing after reviewing consumer reports and reading fellow reviews on this Dell lap top I choose this one.
Worked great till mother board went bad.
Will have to contact Dell to get it replaced stoped working within 1 year.
Purchased a 10 inch tablet and it just did not work for her - no real key board and going from a 15" laptop to 10" tablet screen just was to frustrating.
Not knowing anything about Windows 8 made it hard to get started and find everything within the computer.
My son actually ordered this and he loves it.
I was very worried about ordering a laptop from the internet.
Not usable until you upgrade all drivers, the OS to windows 8.1 and buy the max possible memory at crucial.
A good computer, but windows 8 isnt, my internet doesnt work as good as in other computers even with the updated of the driver
Second day of use, last night, lap top shut down 4 times, ususally after 15-20 min of use.
I opened the box followed instructions and turned on the power switch and all I got was a series of beeps.
After having the agent repeat herself after each statement I had to do the same.
After about and hour she said it was the mother board and I would have a box to return it in two days.
She checked with the manager and he said they would do that.
I can get a computer box in two days and a box with a computer takes 10 to 13 business days.
After owning this computer for 6 months, it crashed and would not boot.
I fortunately had purchased an extended warranty and Dell sent a technician (160 mi round trip) to replace the motherboard.
The computer worked fine for 2 days then crashed again.
Dell again sent a technician who again replaced the motherboard.
Shortly after, the keyboard stopped working, so for the third time Dell is sending a technician to make a Band Aid fix to this lemon.
The computer arrived in good conditions.
This Dell laptop is also good for my daughter who usually put her homework documents in the computer.
Of course as soon as it was out of the box, I wiped the disk, and installed a clean Windows 8.1 image on it.
My old Dell Latitude just would not die after 10 years, and I had to have a new laptop to support the development software I use now, ASP.
Google is bad, no freedom of choice in selecting software... everything should go around.
Will delete everything related to Google and Microsoft, will be using competitors software!
I purchased this computer for my small business to be a computer to review emails late at night, take to customer sites, and to bidders conferences.
When you start up the computer for the first time it requires to get a Microsoft account with ID.
It also requires you to establish a Windows user id and password, which you MUST enter every time you start to use the computer.
When setting up the computer for the beginning, I made a mistake on the initial password, so hours after setting up the computer, I went to log in and the password that entered did not work.
Toshiba refused to repair the hinges until the legal route was taken.
Having to get a lawyer involved on a 6 month old machine to get them to back the 1 year warranty was is joke.
I was skeptical about buying an HP after some of the recent downtrends with the company but they made some major structural changes in the last year and decided to give HP another shot!
In a world with countless laptops and configs, this is a nice middle of the road laptop for a fair price at $650.
My girlfriend wants the same laptop now.
The only thing it did was beep 7 times in a row repeatedly (a signal that the CPU failed).
***Edit: The replacement service was great, called them and within 5 minutes they had a new one shipping and had scheduled a pickup for the broken one.
Very slow, constant crashing and after 3 months caught fire.
Long battery life when switch to GPU inside the i7 CPU, so it can support mobile office work.
Con: WIndows 8 is not well done OS, after 2 month usage, the apps of start screen cannot launch.
However, after owning this latop for 13 months, one month out of warranty the motherboard goes up in smoke "literally".
Attempting to contact and discuss the issue with Dell and their customer service has been difficult enough but after finally getting ahold of a Alienware tech his advice was "I guess you could sell if for parts... we are offering some great deals on new laptops".
Sent back to Dell and they received it August 13th.
AND every time I call them (India) to see where it is and whats going on they tell me they have to escalate the case.
Well called again and again they have to escalate case.
I personally think they lost it and I will be filing a claim with them at the end of the week.
This was a gift for my older sister , so she could do the internet and e-mail with me.
Also searching the internet is a nightmare.
windows 8 takes a little  getting use to.
Purchased this as a replacement for my daughter when her old computer died (it was past time).
now for people having problems with the dvd disc door opening, there is a very simple answer.
Using this POWER 2 GO 8 software, you never have to try and open the disc door manually again.
The packaging was very good and our unit arrived on time and in perfect condition.
Windows 8 drops the laptop to 3 starts.
having problems with the dvd drive wont play movieswindows 8 sucks but i found a program to put the start button back to usable for regular computer.
(web browsing, email, streaming music, and watching movies/tv shows)
I am retired from 40 years in the computer industry, so am not a novice with learning new operating systems.
Have had it a couple months and am still getting use to traversing from one application to another.
I continue to learn new things daily.
Laptop arrived quickly.
Still learning Windows 8.
returned for a refund.
Bought it brand new through Amazon for $527.99, had it for two months and it quit working.
The mother board was probably fried.
On April 29, 2013 I purchased this laptop and on September 7, 2013, just 4 1/2 months later, the motherborad was shot and hard drives unreadable and corrupted despite being plugged into a surge protector and protected with anti-virus sofware.
Likewise, stay away from Staples inept Tech Department.
In fact, this laptop is also useful with the likes of ACCURAVE ELM 327 Bluetooth OBD2 Diagnostic Code Scanner - Scan Tool Check Engine Light CAR Code Reader - Android Compatible.
I had previously bought her a different brand through Amazon, and she had a problem with it, so the need arose for another one.
My granddaughter loves the laptop and plans on using it for the upcoming school year.
I had to order the laptop for my father-in-law who was going on a trip abroad.
perfect for a student.
After about one week, the seller said they tested the laptop and it worked well and they will deduct 15% of my refund.
I sent several emails trying to explain the problem I met but that did not change anything.
We watched movies and communicated with friends and relatives whenever we found a free WiFi cafe, e. g Spain, Turkey.
Had to return it - it died - send replacement drive - still dead... People were great at Dell in Phillipines - offered upgrade - still waiting nowwant me to accept warranty from original purchase date!!!
Such as the host processor for windows tasks has stopped working.
And the internet explorer stopped suddenly.
The first week, the operating system became corrupted and it had to be reinstalled, with the resultant loss of data.
A couple of months later another problem caused another re-installation of the OS and loss of data.
Two weeks ago, the computer would not boot up.
I sent the machine back to Dell, where a new hard drive was installed.
(Of course, I lost everything again).
They sent a tech to my house.
The home tech recommended replacing the mother board.
I now am again sending the computer back to Dell.
The laptop has gone bad thrice withing the first two months.
When the unit stopped charging I tried the other charge adapters and same result.
Then Dell "Customer Care" intervened and stopped the shipment - twice.
They update my computer for free and I got my computer very soon!
Waiting for the 8.1 to go out.
Also it broke after three days.
Within 3 months computer audio failed.
I has been broken after 3 day.
This product has some problems and my daughter is continuously having to call support to help her get her computer up and running again.
Drivers supported by manufacturer only for windows 7.
Similar to comment from NJinKneer, my newly purchased in April 2013 Q400A crashes at random.
Had a 7 year old Toshiba laptop with XP before.
Recommend using a local guru, not Toshiba tech service at $50 per call.
The computer was light but durable and seemed to be a good all-around computer for a college student.
My wife is very happy with her new laptop, what she always wanted and expected for a lot.
Dislikes as always is the pre-installed try and then buy crapware that seems to come with every computer ever sold.
Purchased a Lenovo ThinkPad Yoga in December; last week it just stopped working.
I had asked for a local place in Houston to take it to and they directed me to a partner finding page on their website.
After calling 3 different venders from the list and finding them all out of service, went with the overnight shipping back to the repair center.
Received it back the following Friday with a note saying they replaced the motherboard and everything was tested and working correctly.
Called customer support; was advised they could ship me another box to have returned back to the repair center.
Was put on hold so the guy could talk to his team leader.
After 15 min was sent back to the switchboard, transferred back and disconnected.
Called again, new rep was rude, could not find original info, and when asked for his name, hung up on me.
Called again, and finally got a team leader to call me back.
They should buy and apple product and call their support to learn how to operate.
Someone have opened the box before.
The seller is a liar.
However, after 3 weeks the touch bad stopped working.
In addition, the left mouse click.
Admittedly downloaded a free start button replacement (Classical Start Menu) which also has a  "Shut Down" and "Restart" command and starts the X1 Carbon Touch in the Desktop, not Start screen.
Disadvantages - new power socket (throw away your old extra power packs) and no Ethernet input, also built in battery so cannot carry a spare.
However, now very rapid charging and it is easy to get a USB 3.0 Gigabit Ethernet adapter (Cable Matters SuperSpeed).
Both had to be legally disconnected but one of them did not have assigned a drive letter.
When clicking on icon Lenovo Solution Center (seen in Desktop mode), an error appears: "Lenovo Solution Center has encountered an unexpected error and must close".
UPDATE: The warnings by Lenovo Solution Center disappeared.
Lenovo saves me a lot of time by fast turn on and fast turn off (or, to sleep and wake up) times.6.
After i upgrade the operation system from windows 8 to windows 8.1,I found the system recovery system of this laptop can not restore the operation system to factory setting ,it report an error: can not find image!2.
:)Contacted Seller/Amazon about the problem... they both said send it back for a full refund.
the seller sent out the lapptop in a timely manner only to find out they tried to deceive me by sending me a bottom of the barrel model.
what they stated on the site was a dell 13.3" intel core i5 with 6 gb of ram and a 500gb hdd,  what i actually recieved was a dell13.3" core i3 with only 4gb ram and a 500gb hdd.
To each, their own.
Contacted Dell Warranty support (based in India) and sent them a picture of the display screen.
They stated that the problem was not a defect because defects occur within a day of use.
They refused to honor the warranty for which the computer was still covered by.
Tried to escalate but the last individual (name of Jabat Singh) refused to contact their superior and said that he would only give me the number for their out of warranty department.
I have purchased a total of 5 Dell computers in the past 10 years and previous to this purchase had good experience with their customer support.
Bought this for my mom to replace her desktop.
the printed logo in the bottom right corner begin to fade away.
( the tracking # shows it had been delivered, so we thought it had been stolen.
But actually, USPS just simply left it unsent until half a month later )The seller did not stop following up, giving advice, trying to call, doing what they can.
I spent hours looking for a way to wipe the drive before sending back to Amazon (since, of course, it came with no reinstallation media).
fast, rapid boot and shut down about 7sec.
The back of the laptop is always hot when large program runs.
Finally they replaced the mousepad and mother board.
Lastly we sent it in to get repaired through dells 3rd party company.
They replaced the hard drive and the operating system.
DELL SELLS CRAP COMPUTERS AND THEY KNOW THEY ARE CRAP!!!
Another issue on the horizon is the battery which is now inside the laptop.
Not a big deal if you are comfortable opening the laptop up, big deal if you are going to have to go to someone down the line (probably 3-4 years).
(inches)The M14x R2 included a 750 GB hard drive even though the listing on Amazon stated a 500.
It came with Steam preinstalled, trial version of Office 2013, CyberLink Media Essentials, Creative labs software(for sound card control panel), McAfee antivirus 30 trial, and with Alienware applications that allow you to control the color screens on the keyboard and case.
There are 7 zones of lighting and each can be different, set to pulse or morph modes, and can be activated by an application.
They can also be turn off.
The only problems I have encountered in playing games are all traced back to Win 8.
(I teach a class that uses gaming toolsets and creations of game modules).
Gaming Benchmarks:Games I have played in testing: Borderland 2, Metro 2033, Tomb Raider (new release), Skyrim, Bioware Infinite, and Fallout 3 - New Vegas.
All games played at medium to high resolutions.
Infinite benchmark tested at high setting with average of 54fps, Tomb Raider benchmark tested using game installed setting and got 39.7fps.
They are set 3 inches in from the outer edge.
A 650m will outperform a 730m in many areas and a 750 takes an enormous power brick to run it.
I bought one of these computers i have had it for only 2 years and i have had several problems with this computer and in order to get help you have to buy a 200$ warranty also adding insult to injury the time is very very short in which you can get help and they are the only help you can call.
If you go to geek squad for help you know what they say?
"only alienware can fix alienware computers" This computer is overpriced and works for only a temporary time before anything bad happens to it.
So get this one before they run out!
Cheers :)
Also an "Inspected by Best Buy" sticker was on the laptop.
They outsource their customer service to India.
The computer started to have issues with the cooling system while under warranty.
They never said they would charge me for help backing up the computer before sending it in.
I was then told I would be charged $25  to send in the computer even though the cooling system is a known hardware issue with their computers.
I called and was told by customer service that shipping was free - on the return trip back.
Use it in conjunction with a monitor at home with wireless KB and Mouse and just the right size for travel.
Windows 8 eliminated problems with viruses.
Perfect, comfortable, small, quick, increase your RAM to 8GB, and is impressively fast, four USB ports are 3.0, just missing a 7400rpm hard drive.
Viewing in the car, airplane in travel, and sometimes when we are out of home..!!
The Dell computer is a awesome brand.
Gift for granddaughter, she loves it!
Had mine for about 5 months, consistently have problems trying to connect to public WiFi.
And Lenovo is charging me 100$+ for changing of operating system from Windows 8 to Windows 7 even i bought the ideapad just 2 months ago.
I also took advantage of Prime, and for an additional three dollars, I received the computer the next day.
Cons:Windows 8 tiles launch as soon as you scroll to right.
Classmates, co-workers, & family members are very jealous.
Quickly removed Norton and installed a different anti-virus application.
The ONLY bad parts to this laptop are the amount of fingerprints this attracts which ill buy a hardshell for, and the 1 mp camera which u can just buy a new one.
I wanted two of these units however one sold on eBay during my purchase of two.
I had great feedback from the seller and we cancelled the order and I just had to reorder the one he had left.
I used to put my laptop directly in my backpack which has a red interior and now the case has that same red color on the corners and some red dye has rubbed on to the case in the center areas.
Windows 8  - not impressed.
Also, battery life is horrendous with only 3hrs tops with basic use.
Windows 8 boots up fast and the ssd on the yoga helps out a lot.
They accused me of lying, trying to destroy their company, among other things.
I have never had this trouble before however in the future I will check out companies prior to a purchase.
The company name is Media & More.
It arrived Mid January.
Thye know how to do keyboards on their laptops.
They said they will return without repair, if  wasnt ready to pay 580$ repair cost for 45 day old laptop.. i still called it back without repai and realized that laptop send back was actually worse conition than what it should be.
The Unit was sent back to Dell fro repair.
Their customer service is horrible and their communication is a joke.
I now have no laptop and no commitment from Dell on when the unit will be repaired.
He loves it, does all that he requires for gaming and running all the things he does in setting up and creating programs.
On time, New Windows is great, My wife love the pink computer and the new windows.
Windows 8 software is not working properly, when place to sleep, and wake it up go into unexpected shot restart deal.
The keyboard white color buttons with white light - can not see letters during the day or when light on in the room- white and white- ???
In the Sony support website is located all the drivers for Windows 7/8 x64 bits.
pl?mdl=SVE1413BCXW&template;_id=1&region;_id=1&tab;=download#/downloadTab.
the touchpad never worked, you send a return paper, but i dont have the facility to send it back from south america.
I live every thing about this little computer accept windows 8 with their back door and the stupid app thing in windows.
I loved this computer... at first... until it completely crashed and wiped everything out withing 3 months of having it!
and I dont know how to get in contact with the seller.
on top of it, trying to use the preloaded skype is fruitless as it freezes as soon as you try making a call.
Not a good experience with amazon shopping.11.6-inch LED backlit display (native HD 720p)1.75 GHz AMD E2-2000 dual-core processor750 GB Serial ATA hard drive (5400 RPM)4 GB installed RAMAMD Radeon HD 7340M graphicsCD/DVD player/burnerWireless-N Wi-Fi + Bluetooth 4.0HDMI output1.3-MP HD web cameraUp to 4.25 hours of useWindows 8 (64-bit)
The computer itself is good but after a month or 2 the keys start to get unresponsive and difficult to press.
After four months, the laptop screen stopped working properly.
I love it now to find a case to protect it!
HAD A SVE14132CXB SERVICE TECH CAME TO HOUSE TO REPLACE MOUSE PAD AND WHEN HE BUTTONED THE UNIT UP IT WOULD NOT COME ON.
THE UNIT IS FAST,BRIGHT,AND LIGHT.
The problem is they light up even in a well lit room, which has a reverse effect on visibility of the keys.
as the lighted keys, and optical drive.
My boyfriend is so happy with his new laptop!
Then, I recently noticed cracks in the bottom corners of the monitor screen case, which again surprisingly turned out to be common after searching through forums.
therefore the computer is susceptible to damage from minimum impact.
THIS COMPUTER WILL KEEP UP WITH THE NEW HIGH MEMORY PROGRAMS COMING OUT FOR YEARS TO COME.
Windows 8 and Sony Vaio have teamed up to screw all their customers.
I hope the employees for Microsoft and Sony all have horrible luck due to their loyalty to such greedy and worthless corporations.
I constantly brag about the money I saved and the hardware which is perfect for run of the mill everyday use.
Reinstalling windows from the windows 8 options.
Broke down within the first two weeks of owning it.
The only negative aspect would be windows 8, which does take getting used to.
She opened it up and as soon as it was charged she started using it.
She is 11 yrs old and had no trouble using it.
do NOT sign up for the Kaspersky security system out of Minnetonka, MN.
Highly recommend against signing with Kaspersky, their effectiveness also in question.
She is still learning how to use is.
The computer comes with a strange (make that very strange) OS, and very few instructions.
Even trying to update Apps, leaves me with an unexplained "pending" state.
Must have 5 Stars !!!!!!
Comes with windows 8 - the worst operating system.
Takes forever to startup.
Purchased as a birthday gift for my daughter.
(she wanted black)
Back lite keyboard is perfect for night time computer working with out bothering roommate.
To close apps in Win 8 do an ALT+F4 by the way.
There is no way to upgrade it and Tech support finally admitted this after three phone calls.
It does have a USB 3.0 port but it is on the opposite side of the three USB 2.0 ports.
(Not loading programs, returned).
The percentage was at 50% and not going up.)
decided had enough and returned to Amazon for refund.
The Sony Vaio E series is totally awesome, from Windows 8 to the back lit keyboard.
Love it.. Fash shipment... Now I just have to learn windows 8 :( Getting used to a comlete new way for an OEM.
was very ill and could not respond till now.
finally had a computer man came to set the computer with printer up,he said send it back your hard drive is broken.
Sony VAIO E Series SVE17137CXB 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black)
Additionally there is a BIOS prob that causes the laptop to crash and then give error "Operating System Not Found".
Bought for my son, whom is in college.
Sony VAIO E Series SVE17137CXB 17.3-Inch Laptop (Black)sony is a good computer ,but with window 8 ,horreble .
Always wanted a vaio and finally got one.
Question that the seller sent us a new computer.
Had to take it to the Microsoft  and Sony stores to get help.
Seller did give us $125 for gas given we had to make two 120 mile round trips to get assistance.
Parts of the keyboard stop working after a few weeks.
extract and select Sony E series for configuration.
Then right click on sys tray and select "start with windows".
Ship back to sony for replacing, it costs $380 part + $90 labor.
Endesa up returning the laptop.
The keyboard are hard to use considering they are not back lit.
After 2 days of using it, I decided that I hate it and decided to return it to Adorama.
I went directly to the store in New York in bad weather, and all I get was unfriendly service from them.
The computer arrived on time, Unfortunately however, the product never worked.
After 2 hours of usage the keyboard stoped working.
Can I exchange :-).
Switched over from HP to Toshiba for the first time.
After 2 months I got trouble connecting tointernet after computer went to the safe mode.
However, I can purchase one for $150.
He is new to Windows 8 and has been learning new things about this everyday.
I received an S5373, which by all research is a year older model.
The eject DVD/Cd button is hard to quickly find on the unit.
I used windows 8 for about 3 days and took the computer to a repair shop and had windows 7 put on.
Just follow the update process at the store.
The product stopped working after the third use.
It was found to have a defective hard drive (both by Geek Squad and Toshiba).
Although defective, it cannot be returned due to "policy" which states opened laptops from this seller, even when found to be defective, cannot be returned.
Therefore, Amazon cannot refund the $500 purchase.
Computer meets all my daily computer needs.
The screen is shot after 4 months use.
Bought two and both touchscreens stopped working just a few days after the 90 day warranty.
The entire system runs fast and smooth with two extra monitors (one being a flat screen TV).
When going portable (unhooked from docking station) it is like having a very large tablet.
Called Toshiba & they initially told me almost $400 to replace!
I just use Drop box and Google drive"In my line of work I have to be able to hand the computer back and forth to the person I am dealing with.
I also work in areas with out internet service.
Bought for my son to use at school (he is a senior in high school).
Biggest drawback is Windows 8.
It is a must for business oriented or trainers or for just using it daily use.
The first year anything accidental is covered(liquid, shock, fire or drops).
bought this computer for business travel.
Based on my use, the battery life is as advertised - 6-8- hours.
No complaints after a couple of months of use.
The interface is similar to Microsoft Outlook.
The computer meets all my requirements.
Within 2 weeks this unit had to be serviced.
It has been in the shop for the past 3 days and as of this writing has not been returned.
I am an older Lady who had on of the first HP computer ever for sale for home use.
com, and fell in LOVE!!!
ordered for my mother who is not tech savy.
she has some problems with windows 8, but seems to be getting used to it as time goes on.
pay attention to the cpu.
CPU failed out of the blue when the warranty was expired.
Need to buy a wireless mouse for easier use.
My daughter is a digital media student in college as well as a gamer.
Shipped the same day I ordered and received it 2 days later.
The only draw back was after 6 month the built in mouse pad works off and on.
He picked out the specs he wanted and this arrived exactly as he expected.
After contacting Customer service I was advised to order new laptop (same laptop) and return old due to price already drooped additional $60.
SUPERFAST EVERYTHING IS FAST GRAPHICS WISE INTERNET .
When I purchased this, I was able to get it for $499 which was a steal.
8gb RAM, 1 TB HDD, 2.3 (upto 3.2 depending on process) ghz quad core.
Some games came pre installed with the computer, and was able to run them with no problem on decent settings, Also access to the "Store" in windows 8 (much like the Play Store, or App Store or phones) makes getting games and trying them out easy as can be.
I searched for a while before I decided with this one, and saw the price go up and down from $400-$600.
I dont see the computer needing to be upgraded anytime soon, and having a USB port to charge devices while the computer off is great.
:)
Our old one belonged to my daughter and was eight years old.
Also the left side USB port was not recognized.
Ubuntu 13.04 recognizes all three USB ports.
I left it unplugged, unused for 3 days (was with family) and it was fully dead when I returned.
Windows 8 does not automatically close apps (games and such) when you leave them, but that is not a huge deal.
Awesome specs for the money!!!
Allot of  computer for a little money.
Windows 8 however will take some getting use to!
If you a buy a new computer, search for one with windows 7.
I am a Toshiba die hard and I recently purchased a new laptop for my Daughter through Amazon.
The desing is not great and the CPU is short to work with software as Windows 7 and Office 2010
:-)
The best thing about windows 8 is the system restore/ wipe it back to factory settings feature.
therefore, you can click on, download, watch whatever videos/crap you want and then when the computer goes belly up, then u just click on the restore feature, and Boom!
the computer is wiped right back to factory settings and you start allover again just like the day you took it out the box!
I did extensive comparison shopping, and any computer I found with similar specs was about $400 dollars more.
Fast and slick, Perfect for games and other task.
I Buy this Laptop Toshiba Satellite S855-S5170 15.6-Inch Laptop (Ice Blue Brushed Aluminum).
I am out of the country right now, and can not wait to get back to the states so I can get a new laptop and destroy this abomination.
Looking forward to contact from Toshiba Support.
Upgrade the Realtek Audio Driver to version 6.0.1.6794 after registering and getting a Toshiba account.
The Cheetah Mounts High Speed 3D compatible HDMI Cable with Ethernet and Audio Return (Newest HDMI Version) (10 feet) cables will then output sound and picture to a TV.
Note, the included Toshiba/Microsoft media players do not send pictures thru the HDMI cable but the VLC media player (free) will work fine with the HDMI driver.
Also the Norton Internet security expires shortly after owning the computer and are prompted to purchase the service again, I find this very annoying after I just spent a good deal of money on the computer it could of lasted at least 6 months.
Because of a SOFTWARE issue on THEIR product(Their own software update crashed my computer)  I had to pay $50.
They told how to do a system restore after they charged me the $50.
Get the laptop but leave Windows 8 alone.
Of course, there is the Windows 8 Operation system which I think Microsoft MUST BE out of their mind to remove the START menu from their powerful Windows environment.
I have owned Toshiba computers in the past and they were built well with a tough case that lasted.
To add to this poor construction the windows operating system is terrible.
Sorry Toshiba, Mac user from now on.
The operating system that came pre-installed is, unfortunately, Windows 8.
Gave this laptop to my granddaughter for her promotion to high school from middle school where she excelled and was the class valedictorian.
The first pc sent broke during shipment, I blame co as they did not install hard drive properly.
2nd pc to replace came packaged differently.
*;-}
this computer is very cheaply made ,the letters on the keys are very light .
I sent it in once, and when I got it back, it worked for about a month until the problem persisted.
I suspect MS has designed the operating system to repel Open office.
Was a Christmas gift to my son, and he loves it.
(not a deal breaker by any means)
Unfortunately my window for returning this item directly to Amazon has passed (with Amazon the return policy is incredibly easy and straight-forward, and based off their superior customer service track record, I would probably have ar replacement system in my hands BEFORE having to send in the old system) and I am currently fighting with Samsung in order to try to get a replacement device so I can continue to use the laptop instead of having to wait in limbo for a few weeks while they decide on how best to fix the system.
After being told there is no way that I can have a replacement laptop (it is broken, so I will be either be getting a brand new motherboard or, more likely, a brand new laptop), I was also told that I cannot wipe my personal data from the device prior to sending it in for replacement.
So now I have a defective unit that was produced by Samsung that has to be sent in to be fixed, with no offer of a replacement prior to sending it in, and to make it even worse, the Samsung "technicians" (I use that term very loosely as well) will have to have full access to all of my data because I am not allowed to wipe data from the device.
The user interface, user experience and all the work flow with Windows 8 operating system is, at bottom line, a very uncomfortable experience.
Very slim, light ideal for someone who travels lots.
Daughter loves her new laptop!
She wanted something light to carry around.
- I bought this laptop on my last visit to USA and it turned out to be a complete waste of money.
Then came the day when it finally went out.
Having major problems hooking up to the internet (dial-up service).
laptop always boots up to limited connectivity for the internet.
The only real challenge is getting on board with Microsoft Windows 8... which like all new operating system entirely on a different approach (this one--touchscreen) it will take some time to get used to!
And works great with an external Samsung blu ray drive to watch blu ray movies (using PowerDVD software).
After a month of owning this the backlight keyboard and function keys fail to work.
Revision A year and a month later, that chance without warranty.
The laptop turns on but does not give the image calls for service and I must take it to an authorized review center that was damaged that bad experience is a team with little use might not need 80 hours of use and now I fear that the equipment after repair carried.
Considered opening and changing out the 5400 RPM drive, but decided to opt for a laptop with a built in SSD.
Now the screen flashes/pulsates & strange lines go across the screen without notice.
They are fast in resolving the issues.
WI FI driver - WLAN driver that was installed when I got the laptop had issues.
The internet would keep getting disconnected.
I am sending the laptop back to Samsung now.
The panels fail with misalignment, white line on outside or in about 15 months the panel will have line sir columns of pixel fail.
Bought this for my daughter heading off to college.
She was able to follow the instructions from the other reviews to change the driver and now has no issues.
I purchased this the day before I left the country and did not get a chance to verify that everything worked.
Had to do a system restore right out of the box in order to update windows.
I went to customer service chat and was told to not return the computer but go to the service site that I was directed to.
I provided the information and was told to take the computer to the nearest service center.
The nearest service center is in Fort Worth, Texas and I live in the Seattle, WA area.
I use them because they are fast and efficient and back up their product.
At $1,199, the Samsung Ativ Book 6 is no bargain.
The Wi-Fi adapter kept losing connection which was annoying but rolling back the driver software seemed to fix the problem.
Upgrading to Windows 8.1 was also a hassle as a ton of drivers had to be updated using Samsungs sluggish SW Update software before downloading and installing Windows 8.1.
downgraded to windows 7 and it runs solid no problems (now)..... love the speed.
Ran external 65" Panasonic TV via HDMI with ease (thank you Nvadia).
After getting used to windows 8, it worth buying it.
Plus the samsung all-play app is awesome, goes with my TV and soon galaxy S4.
Beach Audio sent bought from Amazon.
They replaced the drive in two days ready to downgrade to Windows 7 Pro x64.
Windows 8 is a flop and other customers like myself are holding off on new PC purchases until a better operating system comes available.
one two three four five more word.
After that clear sailing.
My son had the misfortune of having his laptop taken from his car.
Got mine for $369 at Best Buy.
I purchased this for my mother in law who has never used a computer but loves playing games on my computer when she visits.
The first three weeks should have been a clue that there was trouble lurking in this machine.
Then the touch pad claimed to be error resistant, according to the specifications and the sticker on the computer.
I call, and after a painful long call, it was determined I have a "deeper" problem and have to send it back.
;)
A online student wish!
First one was supposed to be new but received a used broken one that amazon replaced.
The second one has been returned to ASUS for repair in two months and must call ASUS on a daily basis to get tech help to make it work.
Purchased this on sale for family use.
Repeated emails from a local computer repair man, who is officially sanctioned by ASUS for repairs, have not resulted in anything.
He, also, has decided to break all ties with ASUS after this incident.
Unit came on time.
Hmm perfect time to send back.
Seems to have been designed by the devil for tablet morons.
Floating tiles, hidden menus and basics like on and off nowhere to be found.
A forced consumer with little choice.
It is currently in a computer repair shop.
It was inexpensive Windows 8 laptop with wireless (about $100 more than Windows 8).
Only use a few programs with downloads from remote location.
key board is comfortable.
First is amazons pricing, they had this on a special saying it was nearly 60 off in price, only to find it listed after the lightening deal for a mere ten off.... games, games, games... one need be wary of amazon pricing.
She love it and it meet all the needs for school this year.
As of 5 days ago my laptop died, I have e-mailed asus about it and their warranty service is crap, no response from them, seen this issue happen after looking it up online, the issue seems to be with video hardware, laptop has power but video chip seems to be damaged, and there is no easy way to repair it (meaning by myself), ASUS wont respond to my emails, and this pretty much sucks due to the fact that the laptop didnt even last 6 months and is already broken, Worst part is my sister uses this for collegue, not gaming or for fun, and now we are screwed untill asus decided to handle his customers.
After spending an hour with ASUS tech support, they deemed it DOA and had me mail it back for service.
After spending 3 MONTHS, countless phone calls, hours on hold, speaking with multiple incompetent "managers", they finally admitted to "losing" my laptop and agreed to send me a replacement.
After 4 months, the screen stopped working.
At the price point, personally my only choice for a new laptop based on price.
Plays CoD:WaW decent at 1366x768 resolution as well as other games (CS:GO, Skyrim, etc.
My son was quickly frustrated with the windows 8 interface.
com for $4.99 to get the familiar Windows 7 Task bar and start menu back and all is well now.
My son purchased this laptop that broke down after two weeks after purchase.
I took It to a local repIr shop where it sat for over three weeks waiting on parts.
When estimate and verdict came in that it was the mother board and not worth the cost to replace, I contacted seller informing him of this bad news and asked for a refund.
My son threw away nearly $400 of his hard earned and saved money.
However, I use it mainly for emails and working in Microsoft Office and carrying it around from case to case.
It boots quickly and it resume from standby quickly also as stated.
I had to do a factory restore a few times but ended up installing Windows 8.1 (Windows Blue) .
Large screen, easy to use the keyboard ... Asus is an excellent product ... comeswith Microsoft 8 .... #%$& !!
ALso IE and windows 8 (both come programmed) are horrible and the IE would shut off and freeze up having to do forced restarts.
She Loves it and the system runs windows 8 well and fast.
This laptop worked for 5 months then the hard drive crashed.
Lucky for Amazon LLC they only offer a 90 day return/ refund on this product.
Logged on to Amazon and the return was only good for one month..
They received it on Thursday and shipped it back out on Friday repaired.
Will post another update after a couple of months.
Ended up contacting Amazon and even though it was purchased 4 months ago they refunded my money and I sent it back.
So now on the hunt for another.
In fact my son wish this laptop for him, a gamers piece he said.
Harddrive broke down after about 11 months
No cons until now.
The unit performs as advertised.
I will not down grade my rating based on Win8 as you can download some third party software (for free) to get the Win7 look and feel back.
Email, social networking, word documents, etc.
Daughter bought for college.
My sister purchased 2 of these laptops from Amazon.
com for her girls in college.
I get to set them up, so the girls have a computer they can start working on immediately.
Good LuckWhy Asus did not make it easier to create a disk image who knowsIf you goto the Asus web site, to there estore they even tell you they do not sell windows 8 Recovery Dvdyour on your ownall for nowMattAdditional information:for some reason ASUS decided to break the 500GB hard drive into 2 user partitionsC: drive is labeled OSand D: drive is labeled DATAI prefer 1 partitionNow when I created the disk (system) image, I did save it to the D: driveso that you can move the backup to an external drive or USB drive some people preferthis method instead of creating and storing 5 DVDs
This was a killer deal on an AMD A6 laptop,  Bought it for my daughter for gaming and school and if works great.
(Office)
In Ubuntu 13.4 battery life is around 2 hours due to poor power management (back light is full )
On Monday afternoon there was a new computer at my house.
Now I will have to spend more money - 76 dollars to purchase the mouse.
For the money this computer has been perfect.
returned to Amazon, Asus 1 star, Amazon 5-Star, this is my second computer in Amazon this month cant seem to find the right oneunder $500.
Note an OpenSuSe bug the wireless manager WILL NOT start after the install.
Perfect for the on the go student.
The only challenge has been trying to learn the new Windows 8 OS.
fast operation.
Had to unplug from wall, take out battery and wait 30 seconds, then reinstall battery.
Last week, suddenly it shut off; second time, it said it was updating!
P. s. Windows 8 is the worst operating system!
The packaging and arrival were just as expected.
Bought this computer for may cousin who is just graduating from high school and getting ready for college.
He loved this laptop.
Bought a new Asus.. in May.... the number keys(top)did not work from the get-go.... got some tench help FINALLY after hanging on forever... and the upper keys got fixed and then... Yippee... the touch pad became non-responsive.... called again(on line)for tech support... held on  for over half an hour before I hung up... called back a few hours later... hung on forever... finally got some help.... which was being told to package up the unit and send it in to be fixed... so no computer for who knows how long... and then needed to back everything up before I sent it.
The only thing is getting use to working with Windows - 8.
Five years from now it will be like new.
We had a really tough time installing Windows 7 and there is not much help from ASUS on the configuration to use in the UEFI (new bios).
regularly drops connection with wireless router.
RECOMMENDED AS A TOP CHOICE FOR MOST MOBILE COMPUTING NEEDS.
The CPU is fast and the HDD is large enough (750gigs).
My only complaints are initially installing Linux was a pain (EFI secure boot) and the AC adapter wire feels thin.
When my computer arrived back from their "repairs" they provided me with a print out of  a very long list of things that were defective and had to be replaced.
This review is with this PC running Windows 7Pros:PRICEHandles HD Movies Welli3 2370M (CANT WAIT TO TEST VMWARE & GNS3 using this processor)You can downgrade to 7 64-bitPRICECons:WINDOWS 8spent all day downgrading from this windows 8 garbage, back to windows 7 64-bit, and installed all the drivers, from Asus website.
THE 4GB RAM IT COMES WITH IS BUILT IN (SOLDERED ON).
Windows Experience Index Rates this PC at 5.8/7.9 (Graphics being the lowest score)
Works well with Windows 8 and other basic functions for work and school.
:)
I now have to send in the computer AND reinstall everything.
The new Internet Explorer is unusable.
Note to Microsoft: when people buy a computer, they DO NOT WANT A TABLET.
It took a bit to get used to Windows 8, after all, change is hard at first.
also when shipped it was in a box with the laptop box resting on the box only and air filled "pillows" on top... how that protects the laptop idk... As far as performance, this laptop is GREAT!!!!
I ordered this along with a120GB - Samsung 840 Series Solid State Drive (SSD) with Desktop and Notebook Installation Kit 120 sata_6_0_gb 2.5-Inch MZ-7TD120KWandKingston Value RAM 4GB 1600MHz PC3-12800 DDR3 Non-ECC CL11 SODIMM SR x8 Notebook Memory (KVR16S11S8/4).
The result is a very fast laptop with an external 500GB hard drive (The hard drive that came in the laptop).
1 Year Accidental Damage Protection from ASUS.
Standard shipping arrived in 3 business days to FL.
The computer was a gift for my college bound grandson.
I purchased this computer two months ago and the sound has quit working except when I plug in earphones.
I took the computer back to Best Buy and they wanted me to pay $30 for each update.
Windows 8 is a big mistake; looking for a replacement computer using Windows 7.
To have USB ports on both sides.
It has 3 USB ports and they are all located on the left of the keyboard.2.
So I have just returned it, and am back on the hunt for a computer.
Her laptop was 5 years old so this was a massive upgrade.
She told me what she was looking for in a computer (word processor, internet, light photo editing, etcetera).
He would have to wait until it rebooted before he could continue working.
We decided to return it.
With so many to choose from it was hard to decide on which one.
Mouse pad totally stopped working after 35 days.
We always travel by plane, car, train and bus and never miss an email or pay rediculous prices to use others computers.
he is in High school and uses it for several classes,  he has had it for a month,
We immediately formatted to Windows 7 Professional and it runs like a champ!We mainly use this for Microsoft Office Softwares and normal day to day internet use.
Has a minor issue with the track pad sticking at startup (two finger scrolling) but it comes on eventually.
had some problems with Norton blocking internet access.
God Luck.
got this for my sister in India as HP has authorized tech shops there.
They said it would take three weeks before shipping it.
They had forgotten to load the software.
It took about two hours before she gave up.
I later bought a Lenovo computer, which I am happy with.
Shop around, BB smokes this price.
hope to get as many years service from this one as the old one did.
The i5 processor was a HUGE upgrade from the Celeron and Sempron processors they had in their old laptops.
took 3 days to receive.
I also wanted something to use in the family room for Internet based activities and email.
I find that I go back to my android tablets quickly after using this computer to answer email (keyboard is bigger).
Get a different model - ASUS laptops are the best but they screwed up with the keyboard on this model.
after 3 tries im not risking it.
When this item was shipped, the backspace key when pressed gets pressed along with the delete key, print sc key, and home key.
The charging cycle is also very quick.
and they advertise ASUS Ultrabook S500CA-DS51T 15.6-Inch Touchscreen Laptopthat as the followBlack/15.6-Inch HD (1366*768) LED + Touch/Intel Core i5-3317U (1.7GHz) Ivy Bridge with Turbo (2.6GHz)/6GB DDR3/Intel GMA HD/500GB 5400RPM + 24G SSD/No Optical Drive/Windows 8 (64 bit)/802.11BGN/0.3MP/Bluetooth 4.0/1YR International/1YR Accidental Damage/30-Day Zero Bright Dot/2-way FREE shipping/24-7 tech supportThere is No Bluetooth, No 1YR International/Accidental Damage warranty, they lied to make sales.
Have to get used to Windows 8.
The display went black after two days of use.
After several weeks of brick-n-mortar and web research, I purchased this item.
My son installed Microsoft Office Professional 2013.
She is using it mainly for her college assignments.
Working on learning the windows 8 and touchscreen changes.
The problems begin with the design.
After returning it and not hearing from ANYONE for over 2 weeks, I tried contacting service.
TWO MORE WEEKS with no communication and I contacted service through the online ticketing system to see what was going on.
I tried replying to the email as indicated, but the mailbox was full, so I sent it back to the ticketing system administrator who redirected it to the service agent.
I explained that I had insurance and needed evidence that the damage was caused by the shipper since the unit was shipped in the original vendor packaging and therefore packed properly.
Again, I tried to reply (full mailbox) and had to go to the ticketing system administrator to say that I wanted my unit back, so I would pay the ransom, but I wanted to be sure that the ORIGINAL PROBLEM, which I returned the unit to get repaired for, would be fixed.
Well, I was the VP of engineering for a major contract manufacturer with deign teams in 7 countries on 3 continents.
My teams and my company produced over 20million PCs for Dell, HP, IBM, NEC, NCR, DEC, Toshiba and Intel.
In 13 years we designed over 60 products with full reliability testing.
Under the warranty you must use Lenovos shipping service which is 11 days.
Which translates into 44 days or 6 weeks on top of the initial shipping time after the purchase.
I already decided to buy this laptop, and I had to chose where to buy.
Installed 16GB high-speed memory (COSAIR Vengence DDR3 SODIMM, 2x8GB 1600MHz).
(yeah, no more lag~) Appreciate the free windows 8.1 upgrade over the Internet; still it takes me a few days to get used to it.
Plan to upgrade this baby to 32GB Memory + SSD in the next few years.
ABle to run games like fifa 13 and arkham city
257 g are only for data out of 750g.
They charge $50.
Customer service are not well trained.
First computer I had to return in 25 years.
Purchased it for our college son and it took him a little time to get use to the set up of the icons but he has had no issues with this computer at all.
Notebook is well used, is genuine, is the use of the system to be upgraded before, playing games quickly, my son loved it.
The laptop itself seems to be ok (bought for wife as gift).
i bought them for 300$ each one, this one is more expensive becouse have 4 gb ram and 500 hard drive... the ones i bought have 2 gb ram and 320 hard drive, two weeks ago i bought 8 gb ddr 3 (4gb for laptop) 1333mhz from amazon... im waiting for it to arrive to my country... this laptop has 1 memory slot, max 4gboverall this laptop rocks!!
Seller would not allow return so be careful when purchasing via internet.
The laptop was great met all expectations.
One unit developed wifi issues shortly after activation though.
Purchased this laptop for my son to use while away at college.
The mouse pad on the lap top stopped working within the first month that he had the laptop.
It was a graduation present for our daughter so she could take it to college but I think we have to purchase another one so she has a computer that actually runs programs!
I love the lab top I think I will order one more for my daughter for school, have not had any thing go wrong with this.
Downloaded the Windows updates, took forever to download and another forever to install.
Five stars for Amazon, zero for this ASUS turdball.
Received this laptop in May of this year to use solely for school.
After six months of lackluster performance, it died today.
Just got my laptop back from repair and all my info and security and settings have not been lost or removed.
Had problem getting internet security established.
I have put in many many hours trying to eliminate the BSODs which were occurring several times per day.
I have spent much time on the internet researching the cause and fixes for BDODs.
think a return is in order.
This was purchased for our Church.
Microsoft Office has to be bought seperately.
This computer crashes several times a day.
This computer does connect to the internet but it still crashes several times daily.
He can use it to help with schoolwork
Laptop only came with 4 GB, which is not enough for a 64 bit system (need a min of 6 GB) - so experienced fairly frequent system crashes when too many windows were opened.
Added 4 GB memory for about $42 and that solved the problem, now working well.
Try to get microsoft updates  , it took 6 hours to complete 40 of 71 updates.
Have had item for only one month and needs to be sent in for repair.
Support took 3 days to finally decide that it is a faulty computer.
With my initial contact with another Asus rep, he was rather surprised to hear about the USB Port(2.0) issue occurring with a new computer.
He mentioned and I quote "1 in a million".
I  followed up with an  Asus rep on 09/05 and they told me they received it 09/04 and it will now take 5 to 10 business days for the work to be completed and they will send a report once everything is completed.
Some things to do:1) The Win7 operating system must have been loaded a couple of years ago so when you first fire the computer up, you will have to download and install about 58 updates.
This can take awhile but only needs to be done once.2) If running on batteries, all of the power management settings are pre-set to "max battery life" meaning the processor, etc, are set to run at their slowest speed.
)4) The C-drive hard disk (under "properties") comes pre-selected for "scheduled de-fragmentation".
If you turn the computer on only when you want to use it, it may want to immediately run the disk de-frag routine and that will slow things down.5) If you want to speed it up further, get rid of the constantly running anti-virus and the constantly running automatic updates.
As advertised.
I HAD PURCHASED THE 8 FROM BEST BUY AND AFTER 3 TRIPS TO THE GEEK SQUAD I FINALLY RETURNED IT.
HAPPY OWNER
2 days before we could use these machines in our classrooms.
Going to try to send it back.
It arrived the day before her birthday whitch was three days after I ordered it.
It was packaged very well, and the system was restored to day one factory settings from ASUS.
($250 for laptop and $100 for SSD)
However, this laptop have serious key board problem.
in the work place - medical office with a emr this thinkpad meets our needs on a daily basis - good investment so far
It should prove handy during the flight from Amsterdam to Johannesburg.
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@2I have had mine for one week.
The setup was not complete, I had to go in Bios and set the boot order
I searched, found and ordered the correct item i was looking forWhich was an asus laptop with windows 7.
However what i received was  an asus laptop which had been upgraded withWindows 8 ( no touch).
The seller agreed to exchange for another laptop with the right specifications, but that would leave my kid with no Christmas gift for the 25th.
The seller also agreed to refund my money for a refund, but that would also leave my kid without a gift under the tree.
The seller also agreed to pay for the extra RAM that I installed after the purchase.
$110.00.
This is my 3rd laptop in the last 8 years (and my 2nd HP).
i have sent a request to your site since last week.
We take advantage of it and purchased this product for our son as his first own laptop.
He is pleased it came with windows 8 and the new microsoft 2013 program.
My daughter loves this for her first computer.
After two months of daily use it has proven to be our workhorse.
This particular seller;MYBESTPRICE, was quick to answer inquiries and I received the laptop two days in advance of the expected delivery date.
it was a present for my girlfriend and she loves the computer.
Great computer for our high school senior.
She can do all of her work and pursue her art all in one.
after only having it a few months, I have had the unfortunate misfortune of having to shut it down and re boot it a couple times .
I ordered this lap top for my son who is a freshman in college.
BUT the seller advertised Windows 8 so I cant dock them points because they held up their end of the bargain.
The only dislike was that the unit came with Windows 8 and upgrading was a major PAIN.
just had to get used to windows eight but the computer works well.
compact & fast.
and it died after 4 days.
very nice bought this for my wife she is very happy with it and learning a lot from our nine year old God son
way out of date when received.
no temp security software installed.
needed to set up ms defender prior to going online to down load my security software.
Upgraded OS, contacted ASUS for support - reloaded drivers - restored factory settings - etc., and this device crashes my wireless network every time at startup.
Only a couple of slots for hot air to vent.
Looked into laptops for a while prior to buying two of these.
Live long a prosper,-Spock
Worst.. as soon i connected to internet and downloads apps provided by ASUS, all kinds of viruses infected by Laptop and now its unusable.
Bought for daughter.
Second one as her first was stolen.
I tried to "upgrade" her, but she loved this one enough to shun the newer chipsets, tablets etc..
A very nice looking compact and fast laptop that is a replacement for an old Samsung N150 Netbook (XP/Atom).
third day onwards, starting the computer displays a sign on the monitor saying " failed to update windows updates, do not turn off computer"leaving it on for 2 + hours, does not change anything, turning it off and back on displays the same message.
i followed all instructions as described on the manual, ever since I got it, and only lasted for two days !left message for the seller to return, still have not heard back from them .
Amazing product for the prize.
She only uses it for internet and games.
And then within the next hour the laptop runs out of charge.
Buy some amplified speakers $20 - $40.
On the night of the second day having this, lines start appearing on the screen as if the screen is going down.
On the 27th the mouse pad quit working, the cursor disappeared and I will be sending it back.
I also purchased one for her twin brother refurbished also from Walmart , and that arrive in a  Gateway box  the same as a new one, which was a lot more presentable .
I had to take it to a friend who uninstalled all the garbage or bloatware as he called it.
However, I bought this at Walmart on Black Friday for $178, and the start button went out last night.
I called HP, and they kindly offered to send a technician out to my house at the cost of $169.
Received the new HP-2000-2c29WM 15.6 inch laptop as scheduled.
=)
We have two laptops and two tablets (Toshiba) and have had issues with ALL OF THEM.
Generous software bundle (including Adobe Photoshop Elements and Premiere Elements).3.
A two year subscription to Norton with the anti-theft option.4.
The Toshiba KIRA i7 includes a two year free subsciption to Norton Internet Security, a two year Platinum warranty that covers any issue that may arise with you laptop, and this laptop also includes Adobe Premiere and Photoshop Elements.
We have four Toshiba products and have had trouble with ALL OF THEM!
Called customer service on several occasions and they were outright rude!
Insane laptop.
Sure a few people "Negative Nancy Types" can find anything wrong with everything they buy.
Changing to the Kirabook was like driving a Pinto and then getting in a Bentley.
I have owned in the past MacBook and MacBook Air and I recently switched back to Windows 8 and Kirabook.
Need to carry adapter for all presentations.4) Looooong charging time.
The battery life for normal usage is between 3.5 and 4 hours.
This time she finally got a new one.
She loves the start up speed and the battery life has been great.
Tried the computer for one week now.
This replaces a four year run with another HP laptop.
Had some problems but HP helped and resolved quickly.
She is happy with it and it is working as advertised.
Well the final decision is in......
Do try and find a computer with Windows 7 before the Earth collides with Mars.
All my programs have been crashing, all of them one after another.
What the f@#$ dude?
The system is preinstalled with Windows 8.
However, downloading and installing all of the updates and then migration to Windows 8.1 took the rest of the day.
When the college going student broke his other laptop we needed a quick replacement.
But it is ok for somebody who uses the computer only for answering mail or similar small tasks.
Black operating system box comes up randomly.
Froze up during last update for two days!
When I try to run the programs that state they should help with processing, the computer shuts down.
He is an avid game player and this small notebook has been enough to keep him happy.
Control - Alt - Delight pulls up the Task Master one time in ten tries.
The  power cord falls out of the port.
1) difficulty accessing Microsoft account after initial sign in.
Emailed Microsoft on 3 rd attempt finally able to.
2) slow downloading, one min plus even when I m 6 ft from home routerand wifi connection registers all 4 bars,  notebook has one .3).
Although windows 8 has it s own security built in,  Windows defender, it is turned off and will not allow me to turn it on.
The A1410 used an older version of the Celeron chip (SU2300), similar to the one in this Asus.
More research on the internet revealed that similar Asus models come with RAM soldered onto the motherboard and cannot be upgraded.
Good computer for the money.
However, my wife and kids love this product and we have purchased more for them for school.
2 stars because after only a few months the internet connectivity stopped working.
I bought this netbook at a store in New York while it was on sale.
Asus was very quick in their response and sent me a new charger, and the netbook, which suffered from a motherboard issue, received a new motherboard.
I purchased this item in June when he went away for summer school.
Unfortunately, the item was past the opportunity for a return back to Amazon when he came back from summer school in August.
Now I get to deal with the factory.
NOT worth the #, returning IMMEDIATELY, and ordering something with windows 7
Regards,A new customer!
This netbook was purchased for my daughter to completed her online homework, she is 7 years old.
And she has managed not to break it, thou it has been a learning curve on Windows 8.
You must wiggle the mouse to even get the page down bar to appear.
Then find the "SWEET" spot, (other wise it does not respond), on the page down bar, or close window button just to initiate a function.
), charms bar.
Only got improvement, (short lived), after loading and updating external keyboard/mouse driver.
Anyway, I decided to break the seal.
Advise purchasing one with windows 7 preloaded.
I was in the market for a new system for my wife who needed a small compact notebook for her work and found this Asus system.
The keyboard was really tough to use (required a lot of pressure to activate any key).
Better options out there:For about $400: 13 inch Dell Inspiron 13z or refurbished laptops (Toshiba Portege R835).
For about $550: 13 inch ultraportables with a touchscreen - Lenovo u310 or Sony Vaio.
I have used number of Lap tops from different brands for last 20 years and I found Toshiba U845t-S4165, by far the best  value for the  money I spent.
The fact of the solid state drive is a plus and a must for these type of devices from now on.
Turns on in 5 seconds, battery life is amazing 6 hours of work, will connect to any local network with other computers running windows 7 or XP with no problem when a took it to the office.
I also upgraded to 8 Gb Ram, not a big difference, but for $40 I opted to max out RAM.
Side note, bought ultrabook mid April 2013 so 3 months of use when writing this lines.
When attempting to arrange an exchange (thinking it was just bad luck on my part that I got a lemon), the amazon customer service rep said that he could not send a replacement because amazon had received so many complaints similar to mine, forcing them to stop selling the model on the website.
Windows 8 ... for a 56 year old former Executive Assistant.... all these Apps are mind boggling!
Microsoft needs to realize that their clients are not all 18 year old tech wizards!
Great , computer for traveling and has Window 98.
This is a bargain basement laptop.
it took a couple hours to get used to Windows 8 (as expected), but dont let that scare you off.
The return deadline was 14 days!4.
They remotely installed the revised "Device Driver" that repaired the problem.
Wifi is suspect when away from router.
Okay, I got the computer in about a week after ordering it.
It would be great if companies who are sell a product were up front about how your order will come down.
After opening and starting to use the laptop, I realized that the right arrow key was sticking.
The second agent told me to file a service report on their website.
So after checking, rechecking, retyping the same number repeatedly I spoke to agent number three.
!I allowed him to do so, as he told me all costs would be covered including shipping and I would be contacted by email within two business days with further instructions.
After sending them a copy of my invoice from Amazon three times, they still stated that they never received it.
Needless to say after a week of trying to work with customer service I returned the laptop.
Plays HD and blueray videos (from youtube) smoothly, without any delay3.
LightCons:None (as of now)Great value for money; Very happy :)
The Dell laptop is top notch when it comes to fit and finish, battery life, and operation, but the Widows 8 SUCKS!!!
Windows 8 takes some getting used to, which is common for a new operating system.
A great buy for first time latop owners and for the student.
Though I got a virus on the computer 4 days after getting the computer and it deleted the Microsoft programs.
My  Grandson  was  in need  of  a  great  computer  to  facilitate  his  schooling  in  film  directionHe  has  been  on  top  of  his  game  with the lap Top
Great keyboard, windows 8 is awesome after the summer patch!
Ended up using it as a doorstop then giving it to my son and buying a different computer with WIndows 7.
Will connct to internet to set up.
We had the laptop for about 11 months (it was never dropped or spilled on) when the screen started to have lines and black areas at the top.
(this page will not allow the links to be posted but you can find pages searching the following)Toshiba Tech Support Rating on "Laptop part of Toms Guide"Top 694 Complaints and Reviews about Toshiba ComputersCustomer Service ScoreboardI also looked up their Facebook page and found some pretty negative commentsMore than a week later I called back and waited for another person to answer.
The person I was speaking to the second time took all my info again and sent a confirmation email while I was on the phone with him.
A week later the packaging arrived and we sent it the next day.
Today (about 8 days later) we received an email from the Aileen P. that the damage (all caps and in red) is not covered (a link to their warranty was provided) and if we would like to pay almost $300 they will repair the screen.
Not once in the email does she identify herself other than her name, there is no reference as to what the damage is OR what might have caused said damage.
This would be good for an elementary school kid or a grandmother who does not require quick internet access.
Trasnfer of data (i. e. Windows OS and other files was easy as 1,2,3 using the Samsung Data Transfer Wizard.
Update the driver.
advertised as 500 gb.
While the battery life dwindles next to my X220, the i7 and increased memory makes a world of a difference.
However, I have also noticed that several pieces of plastic are chipping off the computer; luckily the roll-cage helps keep the computer together!
They are rugged, reliable, long lasting and do everything they advertise.
Great laptop, love the touchscreen, slim body and great keyboard.
Returned a new $900.00 Dell and saved $400.00 on this one.
I purchased this laptop brand new prior attending a new school because the reviews had seemed helpful and the price was reasonable.
Lesson learned.
Still learning Windows 8.
As delivered, it stalls at the 99% complete during the program which creates the USB Recovery Drive.
I had to download the patch from the Gateway support web site and install it before I could complete the USB Recovery Drive.
Spent an hour and a half with their website and then chat online.
Also got rid really quick of Windows 8.1 and installed Windows 7.
I ran 3d mark 2003 on windows 8 and Windows 7 and the results were really different (11k on Win8 and 14k on Win7).
love the products and their support.
:)
the three star rating was  mostly due to the fact that the V on the key board needs excessive  force to implement  and with uncle author in my fingers well writing my noel ( SEE NO V IN NOVEL)  BECOMES A TASK
The ccomputer was not wiped clean as there were passwords and other private info from the previous user.
Delivery was quick, operated great right out of box and continues as advertised.
The product is advertised with Windows 8 Professional.
Arrived with Windows 7 Professional installed.
She has room to store her work, and her online connections work very well.
After you uninstall the bloatware and stop a few startup programs in msconfig the laptop is perfect for everyday use.
It didnt take me long to zero-in on version of choice and order my new Sony VAIO laptop and protection plan of choiceA great gift for self or others.
Thanks for providing another wonderful product available for purchase online and special delivery which eliminated the run-around shopping in physical stores often presents.
(My shipping and billing address was different) so after talking to a representative I was advised to cancel my order and have my boyfriend reorder on his account (which we did).
After my product did not arrive the next day we called once again only to be told his account was on hold.
After speaking to a manager we were told that our order would be personally watched by the manager.
This was tried on several different networks.
After further research decided the Sony Vaio was not for me.
that he lost because the laptop had internal issues.
:-)
I have to kept sending the laptop to sony to have them fix it first the screen stops working then a week after it comes back the laptop will not turn on have to send it back again.
The kit comes with what is stated in the specification sheet.
Two of them are 3.0 (one supporting USB charging).
Another problem occurred when installing virtual machines.
VMware Once installed, when you create a virtual machine, the system reboots.
Had to call sony because of a couple of klitches tho.
They are fixed now.
The laptop is very quick to start and goes into instant sleep mode when closed.
If im outside of 15-20ft of my router the laptop has 1-2 bars of connection in the same place where my older computer has full connection.
You have to buy a USB Netgear wireless adapter in order to connect via wi-fi.
I have installed every driver known to man including the new ones recommended by Sony.
Bought a Sony Vaio 14 for my daughter going back to college.
Anyone who is buying this laptop should go to the Sony support web site and listen to many other customers having the same problem.
Perfect machine for a college student.
I am an engineering student, and I bought this laptop before I left for college.
I sent it in to get fixed, and they sent it back saying they fixed the "defective wifi card."
In order to get a signal, I literally have to be right next to the router.
Very frustrated needed it for school on Monday, now I have to go to library ............
She likes the weight & the raised, & lighted keyboard.
The laptop broken, after slight fall, I wrote to seller several messages, I wanted to buy the park, which is broken, but they are ignoring my messages.
:)
The Vaio arrived in good order.
I will be expanding the memory to 8gb as soon as I get a chance.
Returned it for repair and It is taking forever.
Unfortunately, the USB 2.0 ports on the right-hand side stopped working three weeks in.
!What a power house !
Koodoes to CPU Computers.
When I first had an issue with the laptop, I sent an email and heard back from them right away.
With the free, upgrade available it brings back the start screen in windows 8.1.
After using a regular computer with Windows 8 I mist say Windows 8 was made.
My daughter wanted a new laptop, so I told her to do some research,,,she was apprehensive about the touch screen at first.. but within minutes of receiving it, she was fantastically ELATED.. she loves it,, it has " all the bells & whistles " you could ask for !,,a win - win for all
With windows 8 a touchscreen is The only way to go.
We are returning it for a refund and they are now out of stock.
It is fast.... everything works... installed a trail of Microsoft Office... that all worked..... love the fact that I have been able to import photos from facebook into a photo file.... for a little over 400 dollars I am very very happy.
!Easy to learn and navigate between the various programs.
Light weight and compact for traveling and storing!
Anybody can learn how to use this product.
i am hoping that i am afforded the same deal in two weeks as i intend to try and purchase another .. lo
the laptop dell inspiration touchscreen, is an option for the daily work,easy use, perfect for an university student.
When you purchase a refurbished product you run the risk of getting a lemon.
I returned four before this and this one became a keeper immediately.
Anyway - the hard-drive crashed and is now being replaced to the tune of $200.00.
Amazon replaced it and the new computer ran exactly 1 month and then stopped booting.
I GOT IT FOR MY SON CALVIN AND HE IS THE ONE USING IT, HER JUST LOVE IT!!
computer was as advertised.
This was a replacement for a new computer with Windows 8 we returned because Windows 8 is nearly unusable on a regular latop.
They use it for internet and engineering.
She needed a lap top that still ran on Windows 7, (what she knows), and had a good wi-fi connection.
She  basically wanted something where she could skype to us and browse the internet.
The computer runs quiet as a church mouse and ice cold.
When shopping for a semi-portable laptop, this is a wise choice.
The price was right, thus we purchased this computer to save some money.
For servicing Arise, Windows 7 is the only operating system that can be used successfully.
Microsoft 8 is killing the PC market.
It is difficult to find them in stores.
I bought this computer as a gift for my friend who is in school He is so Happy with this Laptop he said it is really going to help him wiith his studies
I tried a couple older games to see how it does, left 4 dead 2, need for speed hot pursuit all running on max settings with no hickups.
My husband originally bought and I loved it so much after he purchased it, I bought one for my self.
The reason we love it, it has Windows 7 which you cannot find in the stores anymore when purchasing a laptop.
I ordered this computer for working from home.
Chose this laptop due to good revues for Acer laptops  and was still available with Windows 7 (have yet to grow close to Windows 8 based smart phones).
I not only received the laptop a day early (which was a nice surprise), but it was packaged well with everything as advertised.
The sound through the speakers amazed me, and was happy to find features like built-in  mic and Blue Tooth (for file transfers) were included.
I bought this laptop for my mother to help her stay connected with family.
Easily connected to her home wifi network.
I purchased the Acer Aspire with Windows 7, because I have friends who are having problems learning to use the Windows 8.
Key board is somewhat awkward and space bar really needs to be hit square on in order for it to work
Had to call tech rep once and she was very rude so I eventually hung up on her and figured it out myself.
They had Windows Vista on their old laptop and made an easy transition to 7.
They use a mouse which overrides the touchpad.
Easy to set-up & connect to the internet.
I sold it to a friend and ordered widows 7.
This was a christmas gift to my fiancee as her old laptop was litteraly falling apart.
I took this laptop to my computer guru, he determined that it arrived with a nasty virus.
Computer arrived on time.
I was able to easily download the security program that I wanted, and my husband is using the computer with no trouble at all.
My daughter love this laptop it works well for her school work, music, social media, etc.
My 17 year old daughter loves this laptop!
=)
Samsung Laptop Model: NP270E5E-K02USPurchase: 10/30/2013 (TigerDirect via Amazon)Delivered: 11/06/2013This laptop worked the first two weeks then after performing a Windows 8 update it stopped working.
I asked him why a recovery disk was not included with the laptop and he said it was because the recovery information is on the hard drive.
You see the hard drive has various partitions including one for the OS (Windows 8) and one for recovery information.
I contacted Samsung again (now a month after receiving the laptop) and spoke with two different customer support people.
Ive tried installing Windows 7, but the laptop does not recognize the install disk and none of the F keys respond.
I chose 4 starts, not five, because the processor makes a lot of noise on start-up as well as during opening programs and , sometimes, while running programs ( just like the Pentium 2 desktop i used to own back in the day).
Hardrive broke after a year and dealing with asus customer service is a misery.
Hence if you place the cursor at the bottom or top of a side scroll bar and use the left "button" the cursor moves as you click and wanders off the arrow.
Popped the solid state drive with the cloned information in and its been great ever since, lightning fast start up and waking.
I bought this one mainly to be able to work wirelessly on Microsoft Office software, emails, and browsing the internet.
The touchscreen is a plus, Im still getting used to Windows 8, and all in all, its perfect for working at home on the couch :)
We bought a pair for our executives to use while traveling.
The glass started to unstick from the monitor panel at the top edge.
I bought this as a gift for my daughter for graduation I wanted her to have the most up to date that I could afford she will be using this to take online classes for college.
I know several people with Asus computers, but one thing that impressed me when my friend call the customer support about his older Asus need help with software not loading issues he got some help (they are not suppose to tell you how to download software) they were polite and patient with him not understanding some computer terms.
What I ordered was a notebook with an I7-4500 CPU and 1TB hard drive and instead I got a I7-3537 CPU with a 500GB hard drive.
These are not desciption mistakes, but rather fundamental differences - what was delivered is a fundamentally different machine to what was ordered.
She said she Loved it, met her expectations as well.
She has been using ASUS computers for school and personal life for several years.
I ordered was a notebook with an I7-4500 CPU and 1TB hard drive and instead I got a I7-3537 CPU with a 500GB hard drive.
windows 8 becomes usable when startisback is installed.
when you register your device your get a 1 year protection plan from basically everything3.
In this review, I mainly want to help any fellow Asus vivobook owner who has problems with their space bar problem not registering the key press.
After being annoyed with it for a couple of days, I finally decided to fix it once and for all.
There is only one single actual key and it is in the center on the space bar.
This cause the key press not to register.
Hope this will help anyone having trouble with their space bar.
Windows 8 takes a little to get used to.
Also, my computer randomly went dark for two days.
After several weeks of use, we decided that we made a great choice.
There is no switching from one to the other... Windows 8 was truly designed as an Internet operating system.
We bought the ASUS V550CA for my daughter who was entering college.
We tried everything to boot into safe mode with no luck.
We bought a refurbished product for our daughter graduating HS.
If we can be this happy with the college she chooses.
That PC was repaired  and returned all within two weeks.
I bought this for my 19 year old brother in law for a college laptop, and gaming laptop.
I received it with Windows 8, I had 12gb RAM, and a 1.5TB hard drive (5400RPM) with the i4700 4th gen processor.
(Been in IT for 15 years FYI).
They rank this machine as the #1 Gaming AND the #1 Desktop Replacement Notebook.
You should plan on upgrading the drive to a SSD.
With gestures turned on, this causes the right palm to create the swipe in gesture to bring up the Charms bar inadvertently.
Many windows (especially newer full screen application windows) are centered on the screen, and you constantly get the feeling of being in a left-hand drive car.
For gaming it is better to get a separate stand alone device with the right keys - or even a standalone USB numberpad.
Ngo, the graininess is similar to other panels with anti-glare.
"Broadcom 802.11ac Network Adapters #2" It says this device cannot start...
Now windows 8 changes and headaches are a different story.
Two of my friends have since picked up the same computer, and we all love it.
E xcuses after excuses about their system in the Carribean not working.
Had to exchange the frist one.
Had to reboot several times in order for it to work.
hi guys i just bought this last day everything was ok its awesome but when i downloaded the games i wanna play "myro ( a ragnarok 1 private server and elitedekaron" the launcher started and it patched but when i clicked play the game wont start it wont go to the login screen please helpmy assumptions:-should i uninstall windows 8?-should i turn off the firewall?-is there a driver i need to update?-should i put them in the exclusions options of my anti virus?please help
I live in an apartment and a $1600 computer was delivered to my front door.
ill never let her alone.
the first laptop came with the UPS package in perfect shape, however, the box for the laptop was soaked in the corner.
Decided to return that one.
:,(
This was not due to excessive force but the poor construction of the screws.
Now the caddy is broken and unusable, and the screw slot on the computer itself is damaged.
Bought this for architect hubby so he could bring his work home and not stay at the office forever.
When I received the computer it had two stuck pixels on the screen which i had to massage in order to get then back.
Super fast, pretty big (of course) for a 17 inch laptop.
The keys alight and are very easy to see in the dark (great for gaming or typing late night college homework).
Have not tried any other games yet.-5400 rpm HDD(you would think that paying $1800 would get you a faster hard drive)-For some reason Asus decided to not only partition the 2nd 1TB HDD into 2 500GB(460 and some change after formatting) but also partitioned the primary 256 SSD.
(gaming vs checking emails and surfing the web)-Windows 8.
Amber light is on while charging and off while unplugged.
:)
Had an G750JW-DB71 (ROG) for less than a month but used for one week.
Sent it to ASUS who supposedly changed the motherboard out.
Took 5 weeks to get back.
The average life span appears to be 4 months on these new batteries.
with maximum resolution, and the computer runs amazing.
Applied all the windows updates and then installed the free upgrade to Windows 8.1.
The ASUS G750JX-DB71 is the Uber Elite of a machine and gaming laptop/notebook!However, Amazon packaging and shipping for this item has been found wanting and has been appalling.
Only once thru a long and dreadful process were they able to personally reach out to a fulfillment center to hand bubble wrap a box for shipping has happened but yet appallingly was wrapped pre-damaged off their shelves... thus it arrived pre-damaged but packaged correctly.... not much help.
The charger died in 4 months.
:( My son just went back to school from Xmas vac and it stopped working his first day back.
researched for a while before settling on this one.
ultra fast startup and shutdown.
Will return it after new year for replacement or fix.
I took my time picking one (one year), alienware to other big name systems.
Absolutely loved it when I first got the product, fast forward 2 months later and It had a serious power issue: both HDD (installed an additional SSD), video card, cpu, and memory all died at once, Awaiting repair results - Asus customer service is awful to deal with.
However, the computer is very user friendly and fast.
About 3-weeks after i bought and installed all updates, i got notification about upgrading to Win.
Proceeded with caution and after several re-boots, the system seems faster.
After powering up and entering my password, the system takes about 30 to 35 sec.
one update took really long, windows eight takes a while to get use to.
Great system for the money
Purchased for a friend and he loves this a lot.
We have created a request, Amazon sent a new one then we felt very happy.
Unfortunately the new one did not even start, promptly returned to Amazon.
He is getting ready for college next year, and this is more of a techie minded device than your normal run of the mill laptop.
Currently I am at LSU for business and this is perfect for college and traveling.
Could not get system to run netflix or other programs my daughter wanted to run.
As I was explaining all the rules to him for using internet, it was already here.
It is light and small enough for him to put in his backpack to take with him if he needs it.
He loves the webcam it has so he can talk to his friends online and the sleek look.
It seems a little slow after signing in and moving the mouse to the top left to open the gnome3 menu, but later attempts of reproducing returned no results.
(up to six hours with a dimly lit screen) The CPU runs at around 5-8% on idle with firefox running.
The keyboard takes a little getting used to, but works well with the exception that the home and end keys are now secondary and require fn to be pressed as well.
However, I bought two Asus laptops and brought them to Africa.
On one of them, the charger stopped working almost immediately.
Bought for a relative,this arrived in 3 days flat with free shipping.
Said he had no difficulty with wireless internet connection working after change but that may just be because he loaded from another working setup he had,I dont know but A-OK for him in that regard.
Head phone jack broken.
takes a while to get acclimated to ubuntu op.
The Ubuntu comes with its own open source productivity suite (similar to Microsoft Office).
The Keyboard is one of the better ones I have used on a 10 inch laptop with larger keys, but I do accidentally hit multiple keys at once when typing.
may purchase the 11.6 inch in near future.
So I quickly installed Fedora, changed the formatting to Fat, booted windows setup and installed win 7 as a clean set up.
However, I might simple go a simpler route and buy a USB 3.0 flash drive and use it as ready boost in order to help improve the caching speed of the 5400 RPM harddrive.
Quick navigation computer takes clear photos comes with all accessories a person hundred percent recommended a serious person comes with obuntu system
trying to return this notebook!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
It is small, light, and resumes from sleep quickly.
The app store doesnt work and the email cost money.
This is his go to laptop.
This a very equipped scam ring business.
They label a netbook as Notebook and thus confuse the consumer by placing no return in a hidden area of the package in which the so called notebook is placed and once you open it the box the item could not be returned.
Notebook is not netbook and you cannot hid information in the package and forbidding the customer to return what this company already know would happen : a returned item.
Scam ring scam ring scam.
After 30 hrs and speaking to 3 techs to get this thing up and running.
It was DEAD ON ARRIVAL and the last tech at ASUS told me to send it back immediately.
I bought this asus1015E-DS03 10.1-inch laptop for a friend on his birthday he loves it.
The cons:1) There is no caps lock indicator resulting in case sensitive text entry errors.2) Remote computer access software does not work (Remmina and Transmission Remote GUI).
I called them and after an hour with a stupid customer service person he gave me an RMA and based on this I sent them my computer which is to California and after one month I went to their service department website to find out I have no RMA records so I call them and they told me oh ya we need to give you another RMA so they did and they told me that I sent the system to the wrong place which they gave me in an email to send to.
ASUS has the worst customer service department
After explaining the design of Ubuntu and the differences between it and Windows and OS X, she loves it.
Ever since he crashed (3) Windows XP desktops due to viruses and malware, he has never looked back once he switched to Ubuntu back in the 8th grade in middle school.
He is now a college student in civil engineering and almost religiously continue to use Ubuntu as his operating system since it comes with the basic office suite that works incredibly well.
He still has his old Acer Aspire One netbook which continues to work well with Windows XP and Microsoft Office.
All of our other home computers are Windows-based.
I will list some of them (partial list) and leave it to other readers to add more:use as a client to other Linux/Ubuntu machines - and/or Raspberry Pi systemsuse for email, web searches, writing-editing documents (comes with Libre word processing software)use to create, store, and play MP3 music filesexcellent as a lightweight travel PCI read that it will run Windows applications as well - I have not tried to do this yet.
So happy to make my mother happy with her laptop!
Asus and Amazon have written in the product offer that Asus vivabooks comes with free 32gb cloud web storage for 3 years but when you try to activate it you cannot and no one takes responsibility of what they have posted on the website as a promotion offer.
There were dead pixels on arrival.
Clearly their quality has decreased drastically in the past few years.
Two days free shipping is very awesome!
They have met and exceed my expectation.
It also takes a while during starting up.
the other one has higher CPU (1.8) compared with this laptop is 1.7 and the price of this laptop is higher.
Do not buy ASUS products!The worst investment I have ever made they do not stand behind their products.
I sent my ASUS laptop back to them for service just 4 months after buying it the hard drive crashed and they replaced the drive shipped it back to me damage it was all smashed in the front and now they want to charge me to fix it when they shipped it back to me that way.
After searching for several tweaks and "fixes", nothing seems to make the wi-fi hold the connection, even when the laptop is sitting within two feet of the router.
Bought this for my wife, her main uses are web and spreadsheets.
must free upgrade to Windows 8.13.
THE INSTALL PROGRAM IS BUGGY, AND YOU WILL HAVE TO PRESS "ENTER" (CAN NOT CLICK) TO INSTALL THE PROGRAM.4.
With the I-5 processer the computer is very fast and gets the job done in a wink.
He used it for nearly ten days, but during those days, the computer automatically shut down twice.
But, wait 5 to 10 more seconds to lunch your app ;)
The computer however is bulky and while fast to start-up, very slow between applications and I have numerous issues with windows always shutting down (software ok).
The touchpad is too sensitive and causes many typing errors (links back up to previous sentences).
I have since facilitated a half dozen purchases of this and similar models of the computer among my clients, friends and neighbors.
I bought three of these for my home schooled children to use.
The only drawback is they are quite large and cumbersome for kids to carry.
Tried going to a windows blog for help from windows experts.
We have a microsoft store in our area and we stopped in and they explained and answered our questions we had.
So if anyone is out there that has questions and has a store in their area do not hesitate to go there and ask questions.
Everything runs smoothly, startup and shut down is a breeze, you can start working almost immediately after you enter the desktop.
This is our first laptop - our son gave us advice.
The motherboard lasted 18 months.
Who can afford to buy a new computer every 18 months.
The unit arrived quickly with WIn8 preinstalled.
Removed Win8 and installed Win7 within 2 hours of receiving this unit.
Problem solved with wireless USB mouse.
I bought it for a neighbor who needed one for his home use.
The boot up time and "Instant On" feature are very nice.
Great laptop & a fantastic buy.
The world has not yet caught up with "the cloud".
Very fast, very quiet, fast bootup (for Microsoft).
There have been several negative reviews from people who were unhappy with Windows 8, but it is worth noting that this includes the free upgrade to Windows 8.1 which restores some of the functionality of Win7 including the return of the start button and the ability to boot straight to desktop (allowing the user to pretty much ignore the "tiles" completely if they wish).
The computer comes with 6 gigs of ram total comprised of a 4gb card and a 2gb card.
The ram is easily accessible and I immediately replaced the 2gb card with a 4gb card (1600MHz DDR3 SODIMM style, available on Amazon from a few different manufacturers for around $40), bringing the total to 8 gigs.
As far as software, I immediately uninstalled the free McAfee antivirus software (as Win8 includes a security suite anyway), the free trial of Office, and a couple of the ASUS programs including the Instant On and battery saving programs.
The computer comes with a little booklet in the box that allows you to register (for free) for one year of accidental damage coverage.
Registration was quick and easy (it must be done within 60 days of purchase).
I received this laptop 2 weeks ago and basically decided to write a review to help prospective buyers to make their decision.
I tested Sims 3 and call of duty on this laptop and was actually suprised by the frame rates (please note this is not a gaming a machine) .
Very fast Internet browsing.
Fast switching between windows.
I researched for a couple of months and decided on the AUS K55N-DB81.
She can do all of her school work and play her games onthis laptop.
It was for my granddaughter Ava Lehrman who lives in America with her parents.
I tried to return it for service which took three phone calls and chats, but was told it had been damaged, and ended up paying my own shipping and having it returned.
I tried to get ahold of one of these from Asus and their still making them but their not listed on their web site.
I also noticed that their not selling AMD anymore at all on their web site.
OH and for you windows 8 haters, I cant blame you :-) so I installed back in the start menu using a program called classic shell, and just run from the normal desktop, sooo nice and the things free too.
She enjoys it, but getting used to Windows 8 was not her favorite (I ended up installing a start button, etc).
She uses it daily and says it is great for her needs.
It Quit working after a few months.
Son uses this for his engineering courses.
A friend has almost identical asus k55a ds51, purchased from the same store...  and she paid just 20 dollars more than I did and she purchasd hers months ago.
She gets 72 days stand by with 8gb.
Bought it for my wife after she dropped hers.
A good buy for the money.
Windows 8 was a real pain to get used to.
So a nine for the computer... a 1 for Windows 8...
When I charge battery (its 2 days old) it still says unknown remaining when I go to see how much battery life is left after a charge
Please note:  I have over 20 years experience in ergonomics helping hundreds of staff with their ergo requirements.
Problem is a lot of users keep their hand fixed on the mouse for long periods of time (unconsciously), thus causing more strain and more injuries.
To each their own.
Order the laptop and it arrived on time.
When I tried to exchange, the return site would not allow an exchange, only a refund.
Refund was quick but when I tried to order the same laptop the price had gone up.
(return arrived at return center the next day and I went on the site to order new one and price went up.
Boots in Seconds, Picks up wireless network connection seamlessly, Battery/power management can be tuned to get almost an entire day out of the unit.
Use a usb mouse & keyboard for man size hands.
However on setting up the computer I found the @ key and the " key to be mixed up; I was quickly sent a replacement one (I was impressed by the speed with which this was done).
She will be using it for college this coming semester.
wasted 3-4 hours setting it up  then the support things to try then clearing all and shipping it back  After a smooth return bought a new one and like it.
Bought two of these for children, ages 6 and 8.
It took only additional two weeks for the mouse surface to stop working!!
When I decided to reset the system for return it took over 3 hours for it to complete the reset configuration..
My son wanted it to play fantasy football and games on line...
i have been able to actively run minecraft, aoe III, even elder scrolls oblivion (and skyrim!!!)
a gamer, a professional, even someone who just needs a computer for student use/light gaming.
4 months after purchase first keyboard stopped working.
I prefer to choose the Avast free personal antivirus program, and it recognized the tablet immediately, and downloaded quickly.
*One important note to purchasers: the power cable Jack must be pushed in until it clicks in to ensure charging.
I am trying to save the money up to have the operating system fixed.
Lesson learned about letting a friend help with anything electronic.
Product given to elderly parents, after 1 month the product locked up and was not functioning.
Out of the box and running within 1 hour, wife is technology challenged but everything was well laid out.
the first time I tried to install firefox somehow a virus got installed and now the laptop is useless.
Battery is stuck at 0% (notification states charger is plugged in but not charging."
Fast free shipping.
only knock is that every now and then it seems to stop/freeze up while its thinking about something and then it comes back (probably has to do with that devil windows 8)
A trivial operation in Linux.
In Win8 I gave up after 3 minutes - yes, I have discovered how to open a Control Panel (a trivia by itself) and clicked "New user".
And there is no way to switch to classic view without installing 3rd party software - WTF?This is completely beyond me what product manager at Asus has thought when she decided to install Win8 on the laptop (and likely they paid royalties to MS as well).
We returned it immediately, but it cost us $60 in "restocking" and shipping charges.
We went on Craigslist and found a 2 year old Macbook Air for about $75 more.
Bought for my daughter at college.
The keyboard in pressing down.
Mom may have to get one.
Bought it for my 9 year old grand daughter.
I bought this for my wife and because her old PC was running XP, what a nightmare from the beginning.
These tasks overwhelm the machine.
Ok for the money.
Took forever to update to Win 8.1 (days).
The computer is really convenient to take when in a trip.
Much of their school work requires use of a computer.
It is quick, especially using the touchscreen, and it has all of the features he needs for ready access to his school lessons, plus leisure activities.
Great device for the price and it also comes with one year Microsoft free trial.
It took 2 months to get it back.
Purchased for an employee.
quite a long time without notice from windows, then i brainwashed my girl friend to buy a new one.
she decided vaio, she loves it.
A friend needed a laptop and she picked this one as her first laptop.
I showed her the basics and she was off on her own.
In order to save money, so I bout the used Laptop, After a period of time use italmost the same as new, archived my required ,may be the power of adapter  isa little small (requirement is 60 watt).
I just want to send it back as soon as possible.
Very easy to set up, I just called Dell and their tech support did the rest including loading Windows 8.1 a free upgrade which took a while.
I had connected to the internet before calling Dell which has step by step instructions when you open the laptop.
:)
Bought it for my high school aged daughter.
She can use it for school, watch movies and YouTube, and skype with her friends.
Fast delivery and clear start-up instructions.
A product is only as good as their support department.
The only criticisms I have are the Windows 8 operating system (that has now been replaced by W7), the complicated and less-than-clear setup process, and the lack of documentation accompanying the unit.
This is my third Dell Inspiron laptop over the years (the first two were "handed down" in good working order) and have found no significant reason to change.
AlsAlso economical and fast with respect to their counterparts in the market !!
Not used to Windows 8, still learning.
The small drawback is the Windows 8 operational system: it takes a while to familiarize with.
Lesson learned - Do not let the reviews cloud the facts.
Model Reviewed:  i17RV-818BLKI purchased this laptop when it was on sale for 399.99 on the Back to School promotion.
This laptop comes with the i3 3227U CPU which has 2 physical cores and 2 virtual cores with no support for dynamic overclocking (Turbo Boost) clocked at 1.9Ghz.
The keyboard is not backlit, but the keys seem to be between a macbook and older springy ones.
I own a Retina MacBook Pro 15" and the keys are similar, so Dell has come a long way from an older Studio 15 (1557) model I had.
With the iGPU (Intel HD4000) you can play World of Warcraft on Medium settings at 1600x900 averaging 30fps.
60+ in 5 mans 40+/- in capital cities.
Torchlight & Torchlight II can be maxed out with the exception of shadows at native resolution.
Unless a person is computer smartI suggest they stay with Window7.
This computer is super fast and is easy to use after playing with it for a while.
The price was just right and it arrived within days of ordering it.
Disappointed that brand new machine had defective component when received.
Covered by warranty, but loss of device for 2-3 weeks.
Good job, Dell :)
The audio jack was busted from the get go.
Had to send it back to amazon for replacement.
Now we have to get her to college so she can use it.
Perfect system for my new college student.
During the several months we have used it by now, it has worked flawlessly.
Windows 8 is the worst operating system.
The Dell Inspiron laptop has proven to be a very good computer and arrived in good condition and ready to work.
This arrived right on time and safely packaged.
Ive paid for two years of a service contract with technical support.
Had the computer broke after four or five years I would have had no problem with buying a new one.
Free upgrade from Windows 8 to Windows 8.1 is available.
It actually was for a nephew of mine and he is very happy with it.
The device arrived on time.
Easy for my college student daughter to use.
Bought it a month ago for my sister.
My son started college this fall and this is the laptop he wanted.
After a few years using my XP machine decided to buy a new one.
So many options, so hard to decide.
I finally narrowed it down to this one and then spent time trying to find the best price (which honestly changes from day to day on many sites).
Of course my old computer was 85 years old in computer years (5 years), so this machine seems like a wonder comparatively.
It was only two days past warranty, and the hard drive should not be dying after only a year anyway.
Everything arrived just as advertised.
It is just under a month and now the system is dead.
I purchased this in September (it is now April) and I just now tried to use the bluetooth.
I have purchased over $10,000 worth of merchandise from both over the last several years and had planned to continue.. we will see...
Perfect for all her homeschooling AND GAMING NEEDS :)Dell Warranty included and no scratches.
will continue to purchase dells from now on.
The charging port of the laptop got broken 4 months after we got this one, I got to send it back for service but since am overseas I got to wait to be in the US to be able to do that... Until that I got to find a more expensive workaround.
EDITDell Customer Service is awesome, they send the broken parts replacements with a technician and now the system is on the road again, Will buy DELL again.
Nice computer with enough specifications, perfect for my grandson to help with his school homework.
This computer is a real bargain.
quick delivery, greatly out performed a competitor that i ordered another computer from at the same time.
Had a Mac for five years!
Switched to a Dell to save some money and love it!
Worked on the 25th (thank goodness) and crashed on the 26th.
Waiting on dell to send new hard drive (error code 2000-0142).
(she loves the touch screen).
Perfect for the new college student.
I gave this item as a gift to a niece that recently graduated from nursing school.
THIS IS AMAZING, ONLY COMPLAINT..... MIRCOSOFT OFFICE IS ONLY PRELOADED AS 30DAY TRIAL, MAJOR SET BACK , AS THIS IT TO BE SCHOOL COMPUTER, COLLEGE -SINGLE MOM W/AUTISTIC 4 YR OLD
His other two were from Samsung and Acer.
He still uses the Samsung in his room as an extra laptop, but the Acer is destroyed.
Fingerprints and sweat are very noticeable on the touchpad and every section with textured finish (altough looks amazingly professional and expensive when clean).
have had trouble with the factory load of win.
It is used as a secondary computer to access the internet, pay bills, etc.
It began shutting down spontaneously within the first 3 months.
Ordered this laptop for my daughter, she loves it!
Windows 8 is a disaster, going to hold off replacing my old laptop for now
bought for school
Bought this laptop as a gift to a friend who lives in Brazil.
After two weeks, the LCD was dead and the repair cost would be higher than what I paid for here in USA.
Dell has an office in Brazil but said only products sold locally could be repaired under warranty.
not to mention a major language barrier... so they decided to replace the Wifi card, waited 1 week for a tech to show up... still did not work, another 2 hour phone call and at the end I got dropped,... then anther 2 hour call, finally had to do a complete restart.
my daughter loves playing gamesmy husband loves researching on itand i love doin all my work on it
I had this unit for about 2 weeks and decided to stream a movie through the HDMI port.
Dell decided the mother board was bad.
Finally Dell decided the hard drive was bad.
com/B008CP5QJKafter these improvements the laptop is very quick to start stop and run, and is fun to use.
i have put ubuntu (a linux operating system) on it and it worked well with out having to set anything up.
Differences between the $999 Y510p and this one, that make this one a much better deal:1. this one comes with the maximum 16 Gigabytes of RAM installed (2x8GB), the $999 one only has 8 GB  (2x4GB)2. this one has the 24 GB solid state drive installed, the other one does not come with a SSD4.
this one has a writable internal Blu Ray drive included for the Ultrabay, the other one does not.
The laptop is great; however, it comes with the cheapest possible wifi card that only runs in 2.4ghz.
Had everything in the description: dual graphics, 2.4 processor, and a ssd cache for the operating system.
Windows 8 with no Microsoft office.
At the current price, about $1050 as of 22MAR2014, brand new better models are selling for not much more on the Lenovo site.
touchscreen + Intel i3 cpu for less than $500 (current price as of now) at year 2013, good deal to meI was lucky enough to purchase this notebook $399 from amazon during the black friday sale.
Despite cancelling the order and re-ordering a new one, they still shipped the cancelled order on the 11/18.
On 11/18 I called and cancelled the order - again AND had the laptop rerouted back to their warehouse.
They had already billed my credit card for the cancelled order and would not credit my account till they received it back.
Same story, they will reroute and do credit when the laptop returns to their warehouse - even though they will not process a reroute...  11/25: First attempted delivery to my house... reroute still not done, credit still not done and the second machine I order was also cancelled.
placed the order on 26th of august and on 15th of september i received an e-mail saying the item was refunded with an explanation "customer return".
Great job lenovoCrisis 3 on Ultra settings, with no V-sync, 60fpsBattle Field 4 High settings with tweak some ultra settings, No Anti-aliasing, no V-sync, online 40 - 60fpsTitanFall Beta High settings, no V-sync, online, 50fpsCons: the case is a magnet to all kinds of oils, dust.
The laptop will no longer accept a charge, and many other users face a similar issue.
I returned it ... it had no dvd drive and at th Lenovo site an identical system had one.
also... it said my computer wouldnt ship until tomorrow(the 8th).
shipped a week early due to new stock and got to me still ahead of schedule (estimated date of arrival was for the 9th).
On Aug 2,the model number on the web changed to 59369999 from 59375625Aug 7the Max Screen Resolution changed to 1366x768 from 192010802.
And the only trouble is i can only install a NGFF SSD(MAX 32G)4.
And 8 is a decided advance over old OSs.
Everything worked well except for the hot key buttons (that are tied to the Fn key) since there was no driver for Windows 7.
It took me a while to get dual boot to work (I have set up dozens of dual boot systems in the past) due to the switch to UEFI from the BIOS.
And then going back and installing the bootloader.
Adding personal programs and setting up personal parameters took a significant time.
Still must make additional time to complete in put.
However, Lenovo warranty have agreed to fix the problem.
:)
Three weeks after I purchased this computer, it started flashing uncontrollably, so it had to send it in for repairs.
Now 2 months later, the screen is locked with Lenovo on.
The solution is for me to find someone to remove everything that I want to save on the hard drive, then call Lenovo again so they can help me restore the operating system to the factory settings!
(Uniquesizzle)
It is a great product and I wanted to open it on Christmas day, and the package was  scheduled to arrive the day before X-mas , on the 24th.
Had to return due to ethernet quitting after 2 days and unable to fix.
**&
Had nothing to give my son and he had to leave to go back home with no present.
I bought this computer about two months ago, I love Lenovo.
It Has everything on their computers already installed.
Lenovo is a must.
They offer 500 GB hard drive and then after make purchase it tell you the offer is 320 GB by email.
I wish they offered a choice of the Windows operating System prior to purchasing.
The speed is good, comes with a trial subscription of virus software.
This machine is awesome fast system boot and everything run smooth.
One of the 2 units had difficulty connecting to the internet.
In the intervening time, my home state had also arranged with Amazon to start collecting sales tax.
At 11 months, blue smoke came out of the vent,  totally toasted5.
Did not hear anything from them after 3 weeks6.
2 days later, the AC power adapter retreated into the case, cannot use it anymore.8.
Complained to BBB, but Lenovo refused to replace itSo after one year, this computer is complete dead.
After setting up several things (I do not what exactly because I am not very familiar with computer software) the computer is finally able to connect to wireless (three weeks after buying it!!!)
I bought it and within a month of normal using, I found the plastic back frame broken.
I was just sliding the device over a table then I found the plastic back cover split from the body and nails positions are broken.
I bought this for my daughter to use in High school.
This computer was bought for my daughter.
Kept bouncing to different screens between desktop, Windows 8 screen, and whatever she was trying to work on.
I returned this computer and got her an HP!
I ordered this laptop as a gift for a friend.
So I asked then why was my desk top (also a lenovo by the way) and the laptop I was replacing working fine (until my grandson jumped on the laptop... hence the new laptop) He had no answer other than he  could fix it for $100.
This was a good buy for the money, computer met all of my expectations.
Of course I uninstalled all of them!After I upgrade to winnow 8.1, it took 11 seconds to boot the computer.
This is a wrong information listed on many website that the max ram supported on this laptop is 16gb (2*8GB), not 8GB.
I trust Lenovo and they back their warranties.
Have sold several to clients and no complains.
Sturdy and although the touchpad is on the left side instead of in the middle they are still useable.
The laptop will loose connection and will not be able to connect without shutting off the laptop and then powering back up.
When I called again the hardware department stated that the issue was due to the software on the system.
The answer was no because they did not feel it was a hardware issue and the only way to continue was to purchase a $179 warranty support package or a $89 single case package.
I instead purchased a $14 usb wireless adapter from the local electronics store.
Even when pop-ups are blocked, they appear repeatedly.
Exact half(right) goes black.
Especially wanted a small computer with Windows 7.
This laptop is clean - no major clutter of useless software.
We EASILY uninstalled Norton and installed our security software of choice.
The online help with a Q drive set up for recovery was very easy to understand.
BTW - using Windows 7.
La actualice a WIN 8.1 sin problema.
I had been shopping and tracking ultrabooks as gift for my wife when she travels.
and from pressing the power button till you can start working after everything is loaded, takes lass then 5 sec.
Therefore decided to buy this newly upgraded ATIV 9.
), lightning fast (takes 1-2 seconds to resume or 5-6 seconds to turn it on).
On the second day that I began to use the computer, it stopped booting up.
Problems started with  the  Windows 8 system being totally inappropriate for a nontouchscreen COMPUTER.
REPEATED HELP  BY EXPERT IT FRIENDS revealed other traps.
This laptop is everything I was hoping for - it is VERY light weight (3.5 lbs), very fast (i7 processor), and a large anti-glare monitor (15").
I ordered New samsung ATIV Book 9 at the price of about $1700, but what I received is a used one.
Great Computer, Boots up rapidly, beats my prior Dell hands down.
Someone purchased these open box specials at a discount because the keyboards are broken, and are now selling them through Amazon.
Windows 8 runs well and no glitches on system.
Do not believe the seller when he says that his laptops are refurbished.
He is lying.
Perfect for grad students.
My daughter bought this for college.
The item was shipped in a timely & works great for my college student to do her homework & be able to take class notes..
It replaced a HP laptop whose motherboard broke after 4 years.
Arrived In packaging well protected .
No complaints from her.
I followed some of the suggestions and removed the virus protection as soon as I did my set up.
It was purchased for use in a small theatre company office.... making reservations, basic correspondence, spreadsheets, some graphics/photo editing, social media.
Setup was quick with no issues with WiFi connection to school network.
The delivery was late and the box was left on a porch and did get wet.
I own a smartphone (galaxy), tablet (samsung), chromebook, ipod, and needed a laptop (something to run windows 7---hate windows 8).
Had to get rid of Macafee (sp?)
Great buy for the price ($356).
Cost was competitive and delivery quick.
Does anyone know someone named Gart?
The new one just purchased was for my personal business use.
Issues with connecting to Internet.
Continually asking about cookies which hindered the internet connection.
Clock disappeared and could not be re-installed on desktop with other gadgets.
Bought one for Wife, Dad and Aunt.
Computer seems to lock up every day.
great laptop computer for home use.
shop, email and general storage of info.
You go into the store now and the only option you have to purchase a computer are all windows 8.
Unless it knows how to do house chores ;).
Horrible laptop, the computer crashed within one month of purchase!!!
?I receive the recovery disks and after trying to run the recovery disks 3 TIMES the computer would crash when I got to the 4th disk (I am not incompetent with computers).
Consequently, my options are return the computer to Amazon and only get half of my money back or send the laptop to Acer and have the computer repaired leaving me another 7-10 days without a computer which I use for work.
Excellent for my young son to play games and learn a new language.
Only have had for a short time but unit has locked up 3 times, only way to get it unlocked is to remove battery.
Just starting high school and needed a new updated one to work with - this was affordable for me, and perfect for him.
Usually when I try to get online following a couple hours of sleep mode, I click the chrome icon (have tried IE with same result) - the icon becomes highlighted and then nothing happens.
She has no complaints
Has been used for a month and is fast, and user friendly.
First the wireless went in and out, then multiple dumps to protect the unit after loading software.
Had to return the unit.
No unit available to replace the defective one.
After one week of use, the hard drive blew up.
Did need to send the first one back since it was "dead on arrival", but Amazon was quick in replacing it.
All the local stores had windows 8.
It is becoming harder and harder to find a laptop with Windows 7 installed.
Also comfortable trackpad with engraving to feel the scroll.
had to reboot 3 times the first week.
The one before it locked up twice in one day before I sent it back.
Product arrived and when first turned on worked fine, next morning screen failed and weird screechy black and white lines and jagged shapes all over screen =( Not impressed and I will be finding another Vendor to purchase a replacement laptop from since the one I got couldnt even last 2 days.
NOW THAT I HAVE USED THE ACER COMPUTER FOR THE PAST THREE MONTHS, I AM SATISFED IN MAKING THIS COMMENT.
This was a gift for a high school graduate that is going to college.
Laptop died after 9 months of light daily use by its 68 year old owner.
Seller refuses to look at it because the return period has passed.
No CD player however, so I have to struggle with a different  (Windows 8) machine when I need to do anything that requires a CD.
Within 15 days the computer completely stopped working.
It will not connect to the internet, it will not start up, it will not shut down.
The seller refuses to take it back under any circumstances.
I wanted a machine to try out various Linux distributions but I had to order and am waiting for a external DVD drive.
I had originally purchased a Lenovo S400 but that was a nightmare and the original selling vendor took it back after it spent ten weeks in the Lenovo service depot where they broke more than they fixed.
In other words, they wanted to put something of an OS on it to ship it, but they realize that Linux users each have their own favorite distribution.
So it arrived a week late.
No idea why the manufacturer did not simply pre-install a full-featured Linux (which users could subsequently wipe off if desired).2) I had a bit of a tough time installing Ubuntu (14.04 LTS) on the machine, had to mount the USB drive at boot time, after that the original disk system got corrupted, had to create a recovery disk, took nearly 2 hours mucking through it.
(As others commented, a novice would find it pretty challenging)PROS1) Once installed, Linux runs very smoothly.
Or (better still), offered the buyer an option of OSes for (say $10) at purchase.
This unit perfect for travel, internet and writing, has camera and take Skype.
Light, powerful, windows 7, 4gb ram (upgradable to 8gb), 500gb disk, etc.
The only cons that I have are that the keyboard is a little noisy and  requires firm presses to register, and the speakers could be stronger, however, I paid $279 for a factory reconditioned system, it looks new and has the new warranty.
I have had it for a month and after unloading the bloatware, fine tuning windows 7 (eliminating much of the unnecessary start up software, etc.)
We purchased this laptop to use in our shipping department.
We wanted a smaller laptop to take with us when we go on short trips and vacation so we can keep up with the news, etc.
soon they wont make them anymore.
seller shiped fast.
I bought this computer in March 2014 and about a month later the audio stopped working.
Since my first laptop lasted all of two hours (a rash choice that I regret now), I decided to take a better look at what I wanted.
I bought the 5733 laptop and only a few months later the password stopped working.
I tried accessing customer support only to discover it is NON-EXISTENT.
You would think they would test their product before selling it.
While it crashed a couple times, he was always able to reload and reboot the system with little or no support.
Great for travel and around home.
Just right to keep up with news and emails while we are traveling across the country.
I also equipped it with a wireless mouse to use in lieu of the touchpad (which can be toggled on and off by pressing the Fn and F7 keys).
To start off, this netbook originally was meant to be a Windows 8 but for some reason, Acer decided to downgrade them to Windows 7 (maybe because they are selling more with Win7 than Win8).
The "squared" Windows Logo belong to Windows 8.
Do not buy from B&D; company.
There were 2 small pieces of brown paper inside to "protect" the laptop.
The "security seal" on the computer box itself looked sketchy, not new.
The company has been aware from day 1 of our concerns, yet when we told them we decided to return the unopened computer because of concerns regarding how poorly it was packed and the representation, they told us there would be at minimum 15% restocking fee and based on their findings (and who controls that) a possible higher fee!
Not only should there be no restocking fee but they should pay the return shipping.
They do not adequately disclose their return policies etc.
Strongly recommend not ordering from them and I hope Amazon reviews allowing them to sell via their site.
Grate small laptop perfect for travel.
I am using this little guy when I go to business meetings and travel for both pleasure and business.
I am pleased with the fast log on, speedy WiFi connection and the long battery life (>6 hrs).
We decide to buy a notebook instead of another desktop (even a compact desktop).
I recently travelled to Europe, and took my 17" laptop, as well as cameras, etc.
We use this computer when we travel.
Our computer came about 3-4 days early.
My friend loves the new laptop.
I checked on the internet for a computer for her and this seemed to be a very good one for her needs when she starts college.
I bought this laptop for my sister for $600+tax (on sale) for back to school back in August 2013.
After a month use, the WIFI on her laptop kept dropping and after a few weeks her laptop would no longer charge and that was a huge inconvenience for her as a student.
I called their customer service and they said that I would need to send it in for repair at a cost of $100 for shipping and handling, although I had a one year warranty.
So spent that extra money to send out.
Few months, still the same issue, WIFI does not pick up at all and it stopped charging and they refused to replace with a new laptop.
So spent over $700+ on this laptop with no gains and hours of struggling with very slow or no internet or charging the entire night and still battery not being charged.
They advertised 3 USB 3 ports.
mts files) to .
Easy to set up & Just the right size - for the money a awesome Deal !!!
It was hassle to port data & programs to Windows 7.
(Lol)
Ordered and received this via Prime today.
Just follow the online instructions.
( tried windows 8 and hated it !!!
)So if your looking for a great little windows 7 ( 11.6" ) laptop to serf the web, send & receive email and do other daily tasks the Acer V5-131- 2629 could be the one for you.
Ideal for someone on the go or for a high school students.
We were looking for a small Windows 7 computer to take with us as we travel.
this computer dropped to $299.99 yesterday 11/18/13.
The box was not factory new (dirty and had all kinds of labels on it covering the original surface).
BUT.... the first owner apparently returned it to the seller without removing her/his password!
I bought this computer two years ago and within a year the "T" button on the keyboard went bad.
Within six months of replacement, three other keys had the same problem---including the first key that had the issue!!!
Stan Epstein
Bought a new Gateway computer with the new Windows 8 operating system and immediately regretted it.
Windows 8 isridiculous to use, and the system was always, always trying to do updates.
As the in stock options for laptops shipping with Windows 7 continue to dwindle, this laptop shines among the best.
dll file but putting the included MSI disk cured that.
Unfortunately 7 days later, the power supply shorted out and MSI gave me a run around on the warranty.
When did you buy a $1200 laptop from a reputable manufacturer with no return policy?
Try Best Buy, Apple Store, Walmart, Newegg, etc.
and they all offer full refund and 15 to 30 days return policy.
Not happy with seller and too late to return it.
WHO USES the trackpad on a gaming laptop.
You have to send it in for "service" which has a 2 week turnaround.
Buy from a manufacturer who offers replacement parts.
Battery with a long life (at least for now).
I have got 2 BSOD in first 2 months: for one i had to reinstall the windows following the indications from the producer, for the second i had just to make an update of the drivers (even if was not required); hope to not get more from now on.
After 4 months... the battery lost 50% of the power... the cooler is running like crazy and the only one thing that the as-called " technical support" can say (in the fortunate case when they answer to you) is to reinstall windows or to wait because it will calm down.
The i7 processor and GTX 765M GPU are great for gaming; (Runs Dota 2 at maximum settings at around 50 FPS)Pros:+ Powerful i7 CPU+ Mid-High end GPU is good for running most games at high settings (GTX 765M)+ Illuminated Steelseries Keyboard is great for typing and gaming+ Fan Boost button is great for cooling the laptop quickly when under heavy load+ USB 3.0 ports are super fast and are really useful for large file transfers+ Anti-Glare screen+ Black and Red design is really coolCons:- The Battery Life.
Gaming cannot be done when the laptop is on battery as the preformance is significantly worse (Laptop must be plugged in to get maximum framerates and performance in games)- The Touchpad.
No power, unable to turn on.
Weight (KG) 2.4Kg (w/ Battery)9.
(needless to say my friends are pretty jealous).
I did TONS of research before buying a new laptop as well and every search came back to this.
cons, Have not found a single con yet, besides the small keyboard layout.
This computer only worked for 2 weeks before it died.
Unfortunately received the computer with the screen not working had to send it back will post a review once a get a functional replacement
The cons would be the battery life and the heating.
Works as advertised.
Gets HOT when running graphics-intensive video games.
I get maybe 3 hours of regular use( not playing video games) which is a shame because i am also using this computer for school.
Far Cry 3, Dead Island, Bioshock Infinite, Assassins Creed III and IV, Fallout 3, Half-Life 2, Team Fortress 2 all running at 1920x1080 resolution and Ultra High Graphics Settings with no issue.
Some driver for Crofts hair to move individually kept crashing it, turned it off and the game ran beautifully.
Tech support had no solution other than to wipe the drive, losing ALL data, and returning the system to "factory new" condition.
Now tech support wants me to send it back (at my expense) to replace the hard drive.
Got this for my Son who loves gaming.
This is advertised as a fast gaming computer save your money the thing is terrible DO NOT BUY ONE.
They would replace with RECERTIFIED PARTS, i. e. used parts.
When I removed it and went back to my old Internet security and antivirus the speed picked up to amazing.
Once I received it I began playing very graphics intensive games such as Crysis 3 (a code for the game does come with the laptop), Space Engine, and Portal 2.
The 8970m Crossfire is currently the second best mobile graphics card, only seconded by the Nvidia Gtx 780 Sli.
That is, until, I discovered that a had a downloaded a faulty System Control Manager (SCM) from the CD GX70 came with--SCM is used to crossfire the APU and the GPU.
Great keyboard, cam & mic.
The only drawback is that opening it up to upgrade, for example to switch to a SSD will void the warranty.
I registered the rebate the DAY I got the machine, filled out all the online forms and then printed the rebate form and mailed all the required information THE SAME DAY which was months before the required postmarked time to send.
Chose to get the "expedited" rebate for $9 less.
I needed a new gaming computer because of lagging on my old computer, which I am using as we speak(AND THE MOUSE TOUCHPAD WORKS ON THE OLD COMPUTER!!!)
I had to return the computer and get my money back.
I did have to send mine in when the screen developed a fault after a few weeks.
It is able to run Skyrim with an ENB and over 25 power hungry mods.
Company of heroes, Fallout 3, Hitman all run great.
I paid $1410.00 USD no tax and 10 dollars for 2 day shipping which was an incredible deal.
Other laptops with a GTX 750m + and a 4th gen processor was above $1800+.
Also, about 3days after using the machine I did a regular boot up the Laptop encountered a problem with Windows configuration, it was stuck at 15% for around 20 minutes and 30% for another 20 minutes then finally booted up.
Click Start then type CMD into the search area to locate the command prompt (cmd.
exe).2.
RIGHT CLICK the command prompt icon and choose "Run As Administrator"  - you must have administrator rights.3.
In the command prompt type in "sfc /scannow"4.
After doing this the boot time to desktop is around 10 - 15 seconds.
Amazing computer, a little on the large side, but crazy fast and great for gaming or just around the house use.
Well lets start out with the shipping.
The laptop was well packaged when it arrived, so it probably would have survived a bit of abuse during shipping.
Also the built in webcam stopped working after 2 weeks in.
like always MSI the best laptop i ever bought , i own 2 of them now , one of them 2 years  old 780R and still running most gamesthis new beast GT60 work like a charm with SSD its fast , great sound (speaker)got a friend who bought alienware 17m at the same time at almost same price , he hated his laptop since he used this beast GT-60MSI one of the best laptop around
Because I am by no means a computer expert I brought it to a computer repair center locally where that my friend owns.
(I had paid for next day when I ordered) If I had to go through MSI it would have taken weeks.
As for the laptop, when I received my replacement I brought it to the computer shop and they updated to 8.1 and took off Norton Anti-Virus for ESET NOD32 Anti Virus.
IMPORTANT: Tip I learned from the computer repair center.
When updating computer.
After you update Windows get all the updates for the driving for Nvidia, Killer, etc.
8 seconds from power on to desktop.
THIS LAPTOP HAS AN AMAZING SET OF PROGRAMS AND CAPABILITIES NOT FOUND IN THE NORMAL LAPTOP.
crash suddenly when I was skyping and gaming at the same time, and later on it  lag sometimes.
Almost immediately after receiving the computer, the machine would randomly crash with a Blue Screen of Death.
Contacted MSI and they had us return the computer to them for repairs.
After three weeks, they returned the machine back to us.
All games max out with good framerate.
This machine can play any game on the highest settings, including Metro Light (everything max and SSAA on 2x).
When playing games who uses the touchpad anyway?
They have 2 HD bays for a reason.
Cannot get back to prior pages ect.
Just a bit of a task to get used to Windows 8 after getting used to Windows 7.
I showed my son whohas his own business and he bought one also.
My other son is a techguy for HP and he thought it was a great buy for the money.
It has a poor navigating system for saving files to locations on your computer as well.
Now that has stopped working.
No dice, Tried ASUS online trouble shooting help and typed in " Touch screen stopped working" and etc.
The battery no longer charges, the computer shuts off when it wants to and the casing of the computer is coming apart.
Great for a college student.
:)
young college freshman that are wanting a hybrid laptop for gaming and school, do not get this laptop.
Blew up 2 acers so decided to try something else.
Bought an HP notebook - extremely noisy, returned immediately.
The touchpad was a little wonky and the driver took forever to load after startup.
2 day shipping with amazon prime actually got to me in 2 business days.
Package arrived undamaged and well packed.
Within a few weeks, the computer started to intermittently,  randomly and without warning drop the connection to the internet for periods lasting a few seconds to several minutes.
They returned it within days (which should have been a warning sign) but the problem was still there.
I replied that since my wife had bought and paid for a new computer, they ought to replace mine with a new, not a rebuilt unit.
They refused.
After waiting weeks I recently got a computer back: it isnt new, but is it repaired,refurbished,... no clue, since there was nothing in the box to indicate what happened.
Definitely recommend for  an everyday computer and travel companion.
Had problems with a unknown device, since day 1, contacted ASUS several times, and after reinstalling windows, reseting the laptop,etc, they asked me to bring the laptop to the store to get a replace.
Called Asus and they asked me to press and hold the power button, and then release and press F9, after doing that, they asked me to bring the laptop to the store to get a replacement.
The ASUS net book that my wife has used for six years finally died last month.
No mic jack, only headphone5.
I bought this laptop for school starting in Spring for me about a month ago and I bought it from Tech Cell Corporation here on Amazon and only had to pay $400 after tax for it new.
This is the ideal laptop for students and for anyone looking for a computer to browse the internet with.
Ctrl alt del or powering down was the only way to get it working (temporally).
Great computer for the money!
Purchased it for my 17 yr old son and it has been a perfect computer for him and his needs
I bought this computer for my 9 year old son for his b-day he was playing 2hrs max but he also does his homework when he forgets his books at school he prints it and start working he loved it so much I will rate it 5 stars
Picked this one due to demanding vet school specs required for one of our kids.
I order a laptop that was suppose to have a Windows 7 operating system and they ship a Laptop with Windows 8 and refuse to take the computer back and refund the money.
This was purchased for use at college.
Six months after starting two keys have fallen off.
Third party warranty does not yet take effect and there are a lot of hoops to go through to use the HP warranty, including losing use of the machine for weeks while sending it to a service center.
Further, impossible to find replacement keys for this machine online.
1) When the power is turned off, the battery still drains.
Search Google for "hp envy battery drain turned off".
The people who report this issue get nowhere - HP is clueless to resolve this issue.
Search Google for "centrino 2230 disconnect".
Lots of folks reporting issues, and Intel is behind the ball and asking people for help to debug it for them.
Still not resolved with the latest driver, which was downloaded using the Intel Driver Update Utility web site.
A $ 160.00 re-stocking charge is theft in my mind.
I spent many hours trying to get the laptop to go on the internet via our wifi signal.
Downloaded Windows 8.1 and had to get a new driver for the network card.
Perfect for all his homeschooling AND GAMING NEEDS :)Delivery was decent timing and packaging was perfect.
Windows 8 was a little confusing at first, but that would be the only (small) complaint.
Was a good deal to buy this device But I can not find activate  Word program code However an excellent device at a reasonable price He arrived in good time
I bought this device 10 days ago, and the power cord has already split in two with normal wear and tear.
Perfect, brought for my husband and he loves it!
This is great for internet research and has great tools you can find at the App Store.
Gifted to father for Christmas, he is learning and I have tried it some.
No cumbersome startup programs that I need to protect with antivirus maleware spam protections.
GREATThe simplest, easiest OS from Linux/Google in an HP notebook (?)
Clear, bright, easy user controls - almost beyond belief after years of dealing with Windows from Microsoft.
Computer came with dead battery.
Get the HP model which has 4G for life for the same price.
Without internet access the unit is useless.
The HP Chromebook met all our daughters needs.
She wanted to be able to browse the internet and write documents for middle school.
Frankly, my #1 goal was to get off the Update / Security issue merry-go-round.
They will only repair it after you send it back to them at your expense.
After investigating different kinds; she suggested the Chromebook.
My daughter loved how easy it was to set up and start using!
The idea is that you set up the printer on the old machine to allow the Chromebook to send the job over the internet.
Her files were Microsoft Works documents.
My daughter is 10 years old and she finds it easy to use.
The enter key was sticking on computer.
Beware if you want send the product back to the seller save the boxes, I did not(I only had it for two weeks).
Had to send it back to HP and wait and wait for it to be fix.
for surfing web it is a great machinemy wife loves it, easy to operate, quick restart, battery holds charge finevery nice security, can set up not only passwordbut can have a call with pin number in order to access itvery nice
(As I just learned, also "Skype".
)2) Do you know any alternatives to them?For office on Mac try iWork and for all platform try Google Doc.
(For Skype try Google Hangout, it is the only software I know that offers multi-video chat for FREE.
I sent it in and it was returned with a bad hard drive (all saves were rapidly corrupted).
I do agree that windows 8 takes some getting use to (Not the laptops problem).
Have to return the computer, it appears the wireless card is no good, as well as a few keys on the keyboard being defectie (stick).
Ok. About 3 weeks after the Wi-Fi randomly stops working and boom.
SHE HAS TAKEN IT TO SCHOOL ONE OF HER TEACHERS IS THINKING OF BUYING ONE.
EVERY CHILD IN THIS SCHOOL IS FURNISHED A COMPUTER THROUGH THE SCHOOL YEAR BUT SHE HAD RATHER USE THE RAZER
Pushes all the heat away from your palms up and out to the sides.
It is also very light and easy to take to classes and business trips, meetings, wherever, it just works.
Humming/buzzing when plugged in to the power brick - the system hums/buzzes ever so slightly.
Finally, I bit the bullet and forked out the money for this thin beauty (I call mine Ray... and I pet it and feed it virus protected games from Steam).
However, your home is not filled with 60 TVs (at least mine is not).
And as for Amazon as a place to buy the Razer:  I did this due to my Prime membership (one day shipping was $6).
Amazon shipped the wrong unit at first (a 256gb SSD).
And Amazon is a great place to buy the system.
I asked our "internet guru" at work about which is the very best laptop available right now (Aug 2013) and he recommended the razer 14.
Battery does not work anymore, after two weeks in use!
My son recently purchased this laptop and loves it.
My concern was protecting it for him because he always has it in his backpack.
now coming from custom built desktops im used to extreme amounts of power.
After multiple attempts to get Razer customer support to help I finally contacted Amazon.
This can be solved by using a separate gaming keypad to take your hand off the keyboard.
computer has no updated software, and drivers and i cant connect to the internet.
Equipted with engaugible netgear usb plugin (free).
no local authorized repair centers available.
along with thefactthatiam out ofthelaptop for a couple of weeks.
*****UPDATE********I sent it back to Toshiba for repair.
USB 3.0, wireless N, 750 GB of internal storage, 6GB DDR3 SDRAM (upgradeable to 16GB).
Then, it had Windows 8; a new operating system that got mixed reviews but I decided to try anyway.
They even took away the little clock in the lower left hand corner.
All driver updates and changes never worked.
Out of the box the touchpad did not work - returned the laptop - there was no effort on the part of the supplier to follow up on the problem or replace the item
Bottom line will not buy computer online in the future.
I bought this from a local store with the intention of playing battlefield 4.
Playing Battlefield 4 on low gfx (defaulted) had well over 60fps, but I witnessed temps climb to around 88C-90C.
Each person needs to decide portabilty versus experience.
Both computers are fast to start and also shut down quickly.
The 7298 is cooler and vents the heat to the side.
The Q7290 would not start, and the first Q7390 had a defective graphics card diagnosed by Toshiba support.
I also had another Qosmio custom machine, with similar construction specs, have to be returned about 4 months ago for a defective wifi card.
1 month ago the laptop began to report HDD errors.
The F1-F12 key are programmed to change the brightness, volume and etc.
The dual SSD and hybrid solid-state combined with a very fast processor make for a super speedy boot up, task switching, and general operation.
When I decided to purchase the product, the first thing that I analyze was the component, after that I was happily surprised with the product it self, the format, the wigth and the prestations.
The wireless will randomly disconnect from a router (linksys-cisco) in the same time when some other devices (phone, other laptop) will have a good connection to that router.
A second problem is with setting "eco charge mode" on/off - this setting will help prolong the battery life if you use the laptop in a desktop mode (plugged in all the time).
The "Toshiba eco Utility" will be able to turn the mode on but not off (the battery will charge up to 80% only) - I tried multiple eco utility versions (per their customer support) but some of them will be able to turned it off but not on again - what a waste of time in dealing with their customer support and this is why I would recommend against buying ANY Toshiba laptop.
Now Startup within 6 sec.
I was trying to find something to give my son for his birthday, and this was "crackin" as he says.
LOL, he makes beats, and this laptop has a lot to offer with the illumination in the keyboard... when he wakes in the middle of the night with a tune in his head he types away-in the dark!
looking to play jusst cause 2, borderlands 2, etc.
Also, it turns on by its self, I try and have it in power mode or just shut off when I am not using it due to the over heating problem, and I will walk by and find it on and super hot!
My sister has been using it for college (architecture major) and she never had a problem running the specific software
From speaking to Toshiba, I had to speak to them for over 3 hours to authorize a repair and then pay $25 shipping for a repair.
I have now received the laptop back (hard drive replaced) and I now have the same problem.
No regrets at all, and saved >$100 off the price at Costco.
It said it comes with microsoft office software for a year it was only for one month.
Even without the touchscreen capabilities, windows 8 runs smoothly on the satellite.
BUY From a retailer that has a better return policy.
One that starts with a larger red letter C comes to mind
The problem started within two months of buying it (Bought it in late August), the track-pad started behaving weirdly and then yesterday it completely gave up!It just scrolls and the pointer moves only if the track pad is kept pressed/clicked!Now I have to deal with the service center and re-install windows for them to run diagnostics!I am certain that is not going to solve the problem since in all probability it is a hardware issue,due to which I will have to send in the laptop for repairs which would take 10 days.
later this year will be an improvement.
This is very unacceptable and no consumer should have to spend money on a computer and then have to pay to have it repaired.
Not 24 hours after ordering the price went down 40 dollars.
He is using it in college.
The space bar on the keyboard became nonfunctional after only a few months and a replacement keyboard is only available from Toshiba for this model at an inflated price.
I will have to get use to the new Windows 8 program in the computer.
Hard to learn, and frankly an operating system (OS) for tablets, not for laptops.
Function keys can be altered in the advanced settings of the bios to either default to FN mode and depress the FN key to use standard F1, F2 type functions (default setting) OR it can be switched to having to use the FN key + function keys to get Toshiba functions to work.
The first 2 I blame on the computer manufacturer but the last one is 100% on Amazon for a terrible job of packaging the computer.
This laptop using CPU Intel Pentium Dual Core 2020M 2.4 GHz  (Old generation CPU, and it has two cores) while the other one is Intel Core i3-3120M 2.5 GHz (4 cores).
I have an early t satellite (7 yrs old) that is running xp flawlessly to this day.
The new Windows 8 takes some time to get used to.
The 2nd one for someone else in the family WAS DEFECTIVE.
Obviously the first owner never registered this product, and when it was found to be a lemon, returned it forgetting to delete the Dell printer hardware.
The sound is also very "tinny," both when using the on-board speakers, as well as when you use the jack and output to external speakers.
Windows 8 takes getting used to.
Other friend was also interested to buy, but the price went up from 365 USD to 430 USD.
Can we get the old desktop back?
When it arrived it worked right out of the box.
I have been using the computer for about three months now.
I am a highschool student who takes online college classes.
I bought two of these laptops for my sons (6th and 10th grade) to use for school.
She can sit on the couch and finish her work without being tied to the office.
Happy with purchase!
Would like to return but threw away the packaging.
The other stopped booting up at all.
In addition to the headache, we lost the virus software and Microsoft office that was purchased and installed on these substandard laptops.
and the customer service dose not help at all, they just want to give you more bill, you are on you own!Think about this when you buy this computer!
Another downside is that, by purchasing this for a bit cheaper on Amazon than in stores, is that you miss out on the hundreds of dollars in Microsoft programs that retailers throw into the package.
and according to a German news article I read windows 8 has a back door that cant not be closed to monitor your computer usage.
Will seriously consider buying a Apple next time to get away from Windows.
Product arrived brand new and in mint condition.
Buy this laptop and save your money for a trip.
She is graduating and will need something for college next year.
Once she got used to Windows8 she has no problems.
He uses it to research questions and for other information as well.
He is able to keep up with his email account and respond from home every day.
Love the satellite feature and came with windows 8.
Great unit for the money.
This is my second Toshiba product (now I have two laptops by Toshiba) and they both live up to their expectations.
Three months later and the laptop is still flawless and now that Windows 8 has a free upgrade to 8.1 the strangeness of that OS is more tolerable.
It hit a wall, and crashed down on the floor.
Get memory from online memory makers for about 1/3 the cost of getting from H P. Problem with fingerprint reader after a Windows auto update.
!Pros: Price, functionalityCons: Pre installed software which took a long to clean up (and still not done)
helped a friend buy this because his laptop was un-repairable due to having liquid poured on it, he loves it!
The new windows works great with old programs.
Toshiba Laptop was purchased in August for son at college.
Never able to open Windows 365.
Teqkey charged us $100 for one-time diagnostics after which  they said Windows 365 is corrupt, needs to be restarted - but need software key.
Five (5) messages later we are still trying to explain what we need.
Product must go to Toshiba.
The laptop arrived in nice packaging with all of the necessary instructions.
Like it and learning to navigate the new computer.
The computer drains the battery in the keyboard section first, and then the one in the screen unit.
I paid for expedited shipping to have it within 1 to 3 business days, but I ended up having to pick it up at the local USPS 5 business days after the order.
Would I go with the same seller (antonline)?
However, after about a year the keyboard began acting up, throwing in  a string of ssssssssss and other wierd characters.
This is a new not a used computer with good speed and memory, also it has the right operating system (Windows 7).
Also needed to update BIOS and other driver, and spending alots of time patching the laptop.
Sell is working the issue and will be emailing soon.
dell xps 15 has wireless issues,wireless does not work due to faulty design (rf shielding and aluminum cover)can only use wireless 2 ft from modem
After 20 days hard driver failed.
I await help from the seller now...
after informing them my dispute was with Alienware (a Dell owned company), they said it was no problem disputing the charges, even though they were over 8 months old (seems like Dell & associates are well known by credit card companies).
Also google Dell Su*ks and read the horror stories about Dell, and how they treat our soldiers in other countries.
Now to be fair Dell business computers seem to be decent, but for the average consumer.. you mean nothing to them after the sale is made (IMHO).
Go with Acer, Asus, Sony, (not a big fan of H. Ps) Samsung.. even Apple (expensive and proprietary) and save yourself a headache (IMHO).
Last minute as in four days till G day.
Selected two shipping... two days, later laptop arrived in a very well protected package without even a scratch on the box.
A microphone and headphone jack.
As this laptop was on sale for only $1465 at the time, so I decided to buy it.
For example, the "Computer Upgrade King" is putting this laptop on sale.
Computer Upgrade King is safe, but beware in the description in some of their products, they modify laptops which sounds really unsafe, to be honest.
The ALW17 is a beautiful toy.
This laptop can run fluently every software related to your work such as, 3D max, CAD, Photoshop... Pros:- CPU: Intel i7-4700MQ 2.4 GHz- RAM: 8 GB DIMM- HDD:750 GB 7200 rpm Hard Drive- GRAPHIC: NVIDIA GeForce GTX 765MCons:- Windows 7 Home Premium- Heavy: 9.4 poundsYou can also see the strongest Alienware:B00DL49A1WThis Alienware with offer:B00D6HBX6OSquareTrade 3-Year Computer Accident Protection PlanB002I01TZABag for AlienwareB001GI5CSA
I seriously paid 1600$ for this laptop with these great specs... and it has a dead pixel and it took a small army of nerd friends to figure out why it couldnt run Unity 3D, because of defaulting to the intel graphics instead of the nividia.
I tried to return it to the vendor and they would not take it back unless I paid a restocking fee.
First one worked for 2 days then crashed... 2nd one was DOA...
It arrived on time, in a well packed package.
Also, a small indentation in the front to assist in opening the case would improve ease of opening and avoid fingerprints on the satin finish.
bought it for girlfriend for college to replace her macbook pro(which had overheating issues even with a chill mat)has worked top notch for over a year, great buy for the price.
The EULA seal on plastic bag that held the laptop was broken.
Because I do not have an option of contacting the seller after the order I am leaving feed back.
A lot of computer in a small package.
Further, on-line bill paying is seamless and no more worries when mail delivery might occur.
When I ordered my new Toshiba computer (which arrived on time, as promised), I was not aware that you then also made me a prime client and charged me $ 79 for being a prime client.
Just over a month after purchase the battery decided to fail.
After an online self diagnosis from Toshiba Support, I ordered a new battery and received it two days later.
Great computer for the money.
I sent them both to Amazon and went with a different brand.
The Space Bar requires much greater pressure than other keys (abnormally so).
Amazon said they will send a replacement Toshiba unit sometime between 23 September and 4 October.
Have had a Toshiba Satellite for 8Years and decided to get another as it has been a great Laptop, Love this one has Windows 7 and not 8...
I purchased the 8 gig stick  ($79) and installed it - much faster and smoother operation.
My main problem is that the day after I ordered the item, the price was reduced by over $50, so I ended up spending $630 total, which I consider a premium price to pay for a Win 7 computer with an i3 chip.
Then to find out MS sent me wrong code.
Quite an upgrade from Windows XP to Window 7 Home Premium operating system.
Has three USB  ports,  one HDMI, one ethernet port and a VGA connection.
The last 12-May, we bought the laptop Toshiba Satellite C55-A, we started to use the computer around a week after receive it.
I used different routers (and is important to consider that these routers were working fine  with another electronic devices (laptops, tablets, cell phones)Later on several test with unsatisfactory results regarding Wi-Fi connection, following the help tools and suggestions of Windows, I confirmed that when the computer is so close to the routers, the connection is fine, but when I move the laptop few steps in my house to another room (less than 10 ft) the connection failed.
I verified this situation trying to work at different places and the result was the same: to connect my laptop with Wi-Fi I must to be in the same table where is located the modem, situation unacceptable for a brand new equipment.
I ordered a new Dell 17" laptop about a week ago.
But we needed two laptops, becaust the other two decided to die within a week of each other.
After three months the key board has gone out and not returnable.
This Toshiba Satellite C55-A5245 15.6 inch laptop is a deal at the price.
love the computer...
This is our second Toshiba laptop, and we chose this brand due to recommendations from some of our missionary friends.
After a month of almost daily use, we have no complaints.
I was so happy to find a computer with a Windows 7 operating system.
The first lasted over 10 years.
Recommended it to my sister and she bought one too!
Great for searching the web and his sports.
Our PC recently quit running & I am so glad I decided to go with a laptop.
This was a gift to a patient confined to hospital for a month.
It arrived on time and well protected.
My wife needed a laptop for her new sewing machine with windows 7 this is perfect.
A very good computer for the price and came with Windows 7 (Bravo!)
Before I delivered it to him I uninstalled all the Norton products and other trial software and then installed ESET for anti virus, Open Office, a Gmail account, a Yahoo Messenger account, and a Facebook account.
I went to naboring and out of town outlet stores to find less worthy computers sell for the price this worthy computer does, they sold this computer for $150 - $200 more, they  lost a sale...
My old Toshiba Satellite running Windows XP was rugged and has performed flawlessly for years.
I followed the instructions I finally found on the HD to make recovery media.
This is when I discovered the optical drive produced frequent errors despite trying new and different brands of DVD media.
I did not discover the card reader malfunction until after I had used Windows Easy Transfer to migrate data from my Windows 7 Dell to the Toshiba.
When I decided to return the Toshiba I had to erase the hard drive to keep my data from being shared.
The computer has been returned to Amazon.
The wireless internet connection functions erratically.
Tried everything, including downloading an updated driver (which the laptop would not allow even with Toshiba tech support on the line) so was told by the Toshiba rep to return the laptop to Amazon which I did within the 30 days.
Love the computer.
One of the key "T" has come off.
It was purchased for someone who had been using a Windows XP computer.
We decided on a Windows 7 computer.
I was searching for a computer with Windows 7 and I also wanted Toshiba.
After having this commuter for two months- it is falling apart.
This is my second toshiba- the last one fell apart after a couple years of use.
I bought this laptop during Christmas of 2013... from the beginning it had problems... the battery would not charge after 1 day... received another... took forever to charge.. then drained quickly so I left it plugged in most of the time... now after 6 months.. the screen is out...
Outstanding computer, meets all our expections in a laptop.
Amazon got a new one on the way in 3 days, however, and after the first week that one is doing fine.
The other odd thing is that when this Toshiba attempts to register itself, the Toshiba registration website declines to "take the call."
But needs an external disk drive to load DVD based programs.
This product is perfect for business tasks.
My friend suggested this (she works in computers) as a replacement computer for my other Dell which was having issues... and I love this computer!
boyfriend use it everyday for work now:/.
It is very handy for a college student and the windows  software is great
I have purchased 2 of these, one for myself with upgrades (500gb SSD and 12GB Ram) and one for my mother.
Office applications, internet, streaming, music, all work decently.
daughter loves the computer, plays animal jam nonn stop and does her homework with ease.
Although he uses a computer every day, he is lets say.... technologically challenged.
He knows what he is used to and his daily computer tasks, but will be intimidated by new technology or change.
Unfortunately we had to return this because he wasnt able to get used to it.
Quick start up.
Six weeks later, after more phone calls, I received the refund for the flawed computer.
The second, or replacement purchase arrived well packaged.
Live and learn.
This came from a private dealer so no guarantee from Dell (found this out when my computer teacher was setting it up).
I Left Dell For Another Computer Brand Needless To Say, I Want Stray Again This Lap Top Serves Me Well In Education  And For Starting Up An Home Base Business.
However the position along the length is not inconvenient.
merry christmas and happy new year
We have bought one of these for my sister-in-law and my sister and they both love them.
My son loves computers and has already decided to upgrade the ram on this which was done at home and now is up to his standards but he does play some heavy games, This is great stock for anyone using it for a more basic route.
The processor is fast and works well for his online games (minecraft).
She loved her new laptop.
She does not buy in to the whole tablet craze.
We will be purchasing a second one for our daughter.
Fast internet access, streaming data, video and so on.
The hard drive crashed after just 4 months of light use.
I bought this for my daughter to replace her 4 year old Lenovo which broke down.
Bought for my teenage daughter for Xmas... of course she opened it early!!
Now he just has to understand the Dell product is quick to fail.
I have purchase many Laptops as i work with over 100 students overseas and as they go to college we purchase one for them... the Apples are still working.
IF they were... then it is a constant hand out for more money!
Very fast for my teen son and his gaming.
I am however having trouble converting from Windows 7 to Windows 8.
My family bought 2 of these computers recently and decided not to buy the warranty to them.
The computer was as expected except for the black finish which attracts visible dirt.
I turned to Amazon after searching the local stores for a 17" dell but could not locate any.
Computer contained all he needed to replace his old Dell XP Latitude D 820.
Thekeyboard does not workproperlly (specially the space bar).
When I compared with Tigerdirect they charge $28 for standard and $33 for 2nd day air!
I was planning to buy a gaming laptop from a very long time.
Plays anything at max configuration.
Fast processor and plenty of storage space (750GB).
26 emails to them and sending the information over and over and even 3 times in one day to 3 different people.
Going to buy a MAC next!
BOUGHT THIS FOR MY SON FOR HIS FIRST YEAR OF COLLEGE 2013.
:-)
(after a couple uses it was still to much of a pain to operate/figure out so it became backup/doorstop/empty desk filler)Tried to return it to the store after 20 days yet they have a 14 day return policy on HP because they know it is a crap product Have now spent over three hours on the phone and countless emails just to send it in and to get it "fixed".
(award winning service???)
If nothing else lesson learned and now I have a designer doorstop once they send it back from getting "fixed"
On start up ,CAPS  on when they were not.. Got good at removing battery& recovering..
Came with a 100 gig smaller drive than advertised.
Will be wondering what is going to be found in the future.
Bought as a gift for our daughter.
In academy and does the job... also like new operating system... pad could be better on the next model.
Stil struggling with windows 8, but starting to learn some of the tricks.
A couple of issues: the power cable part, before the converter says "125 volts" which is bad news for traveling.
When I called HP for help, I was told that there was no leaving Windows 8 and that I needed to go and buy a new computer.
This is the first laptop I have purchased in a long time (the last one was a Thinkpad).
It came with Windows 8 and I am hoping I get a free upgrade to 8.1 in October.
IT WAS PURCHASED TO REPLACE HER DELL 1525 WHICH HAS SERVED HER WELL FOR 5~6 YEARS AND SHE LOVES IT.
Good for office, sales person and student.
Called HP help desk and after about 20 minutes of being transferred to numerous people, got a tech how assisted with a factory re-set.
Returned to seller for refund.
And not happy about having to pay $21.60 to return an HP product that did not work.
She is a college student and the versitality this laptop/tablet offers is exactly what she needed and wanted.
The laptop is versatile, meets promotional promise.
If you want a single portable computer for college or business then get a Windows or Apple laptop with their greater versatility and system expandability.
Be aware of this as most  Android tablet devices are rechargeable via a common 5v USB charger which  has become ubiquitous.
Also if WiFi is left on when the main unit is turned off then there is considerable power drain.
The HP has a quad core processor which can have single core running selected when minimum power consumption operation is desired.
I returned to the store and got a new one.
I returned the Laptop and canceled the deal.
After spending 3 days with Windows 8, I am loving this computer.
This was for my wife, she uses it to back up her main computer for her business.
She is a Junior in college.
I bought her MS Office 2013 for her new computer, which was available as a download.
She is very happy.
got this for son 18 going to collage.
Also, the size of the font changes very easily when on the Internet.
Did not come with Microsoft office so had to purchase key to unlock product.
with in one week I had to call Toshiba 4 times for help take out the batterie unplug it plug it back in.
Just bought a "new" laptop from this company and found out it is NOT new.
Called Toshiba about the problem and discovered the computer was registered back in  November 2013 using the original number.
I use it for work ( I work from home as a real estate agent) and it works great.
Just what he wanted for game play.
The system ships with Windows 8, which can be upgraded to Windows 8.1 free of charge.
When the system goes into sleep mode and is reawakened, USB devices fail to reawaken until unplugged and replugged.
The product description is very misleading; only later into the description AFTER it claims the computer I bought is 3.4, it then says (up to 3.4 ghz).
At that time they sold also this laptop: http://www.
com/gp/product/B00F4MEGBI/ref=s9_simh_se_p147_d0_i1?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf;_rd_s=auto-no-results-center-1&pf;_rd_r=0X49YFNBREC9NTCNP74K&pf;_rd_t=301&pf;_rd_p=1263465782&pf;_rd_i=alienaware%2017%20silver%20anodine- Silver-colored Anodized Aluminum whose price was 100 USD cheaper.
:)
Three month ago, I bought a dell Alienware in Amazon.
However, when I turned on the computer, the operating system is Windows 7 instead.
On the official website, the exact Alienware 14 inch model with EXACT configuration cost $1249.00.
The selected computer fulfills our expectations and the delivery service was perfect according to plan.
The motherboard suddenly stopped working a few days after the warranty expired.
Easy interface and just what she needs to get started and I can pull her out of the house and get her outside
got mine at walmart for 199.
Having asked them, they seemed to be very pleased with them.
I picked the Chromebook up  year ago and I have been in love with the computer since day one.
If you understand the concept of the Chomebook (an internet only inexpensive barebones however fast system) and you have proper expectations of the computer you are in for a real treat.
It is just what he wanted to pay bills, order off the internet and check mail.
Works as advertised.
Bought this pc about 18 months ago at another store.
Small enough for them to store when not in use.
In the site, it is given - Intel Core i7 3537U 3.1 GHzBut its Intel Core i7 3537U 2GHzAnd the Warranty has already started from October 2013..!Disappointed with these two stufs
Dell initiated a return for service, and did a one day turnaround, and it is working great..
Amazon did the same mistake with their Dell inspiron 15Z deal.
Contacted customer service via chat and was told to return the product as there is no replacement (out of stock).
Unfortunately, I missed out on a great Black Friday laptop this year by ordering this falsely advertised product :(
I bought the Intel AC7260 card (~$35) and now I have BOTH Bluetooth and wireless AC which runs at 866.7Mbps.
After all that is done, look for Win8.1 in the app store; another hour of download and install.
It takes some getting use to and one who have to ensure they press each key with enough force.
I got this laptop for $450 the day before the black Friday deal week started.
However the harddrive was damaged and it took a total of 15 days (1 day after their return policy for anything defective) to completely break down.
Contacted the seller Mirrorsymmetry and they would not budge on a refund without charging 20-50% restocking fee.
Had to contact Asus and pay to send it to California to be fixed.
This computer was meant to be a gift for my parents, who needed a computer quickly and was a complete disappointment for everyone involved.
Besides that, computer is ok given the price and the characteristics.
after spending hours on the phone with ASUS tech support and doing 2 factory resets I still could not get the wifi to stop dropping out.
Finally gave up and sent it back.
One for my son heading out to college and one for my wife.
I will be buying a 3rd in the next month for my second son heading off to college.
As for Windows 8...  for the average user it will take 6 - 9 months to get comfortable with the OS.
You just have to forget everything you knew in Windows 7 and learn Windows 8.
Ideal for students and people a lot and for aAmazing user experienceWriting a paper or lecture notes became a game :)
Even after installing new software and changing the sensitivity settings, it is way too responsive, also opening windows and apps by accident.
To begin as soon as I received this I wiped the harddrive and did a clean install of WIN8.1.
After a fresh install the ram when from 50% used during idle to 25% used (on 4GB ram which I suppose is a good improvement).
If you want to install anything from a CD you will need to buy an external CD drive - not a big deal when you can get a decent one for $35.
Perfect tool for school and trying to get my work done in a fast fashion.
Steps to upgrade to 8.1:1 ) To upgrade, you need to first install bunch of updates by going to Control Panel -> Check for updates.
There was also an update to wireless adapter device driver included in this one.2)  Next, visit the windows  store and you will see a giant tile with windows 8.1 upgrade written on it on the left.
My son specifically asked for this laptop as he loves to play minecraft.
We have already returned the item to Amazon and gone with a different brand.
The laptop randomly clicks and all power is lost (battery is full ).
Seller would not accept return.
As a computer professional (30 years in the industry), I am very skilled with software - but not W8.
Found the perfect driver collection on ... the Lenovo support site, of all places (file name hsd607ww).
I got a Toshiba with Wndows7 2 years ago for my husband and I really like it, so when my eight year old HP started acting up I decided a new laptop was in order for me.
Three months after buying this laptop, the hard drive failed and I have had nothing but trouble with getting it repaired.
This is the worst company to deal with.
Windows 8 takes some getting use to.
Bought this for my wife after she broke her how laptop.
i purchased it on sale at staples - was around $350 there.
Bought this for my son for Christmas for around $400.00 and he has no issues with what he calls "lagging."
(Was an issue with the dual-core he had ) Plays minecraft and Roblox seemlessly.
He is a gamer and a techno guy.
This computer stopped working a little over a month.
Called Toshiba and they want to charge more than $150 for troubleshooting
It is very similar to android when you use the main color block page, you have an application store where you can find games, dictionaries, books, and everything you can image.
My wife needed to replace her laptop.
Since we have had Toshiba laptops in the past, we researched our choices from this manufacturer.
Disconnection of power from wall kills laptop.
Sending back to seller.
The computer arrived quickly and in good working order.
Laptop did not power up after 3 days of when my daughter was using it.
Just letting everyone knows of my experience and everyone is entitled to making their decision of course.
I picked up this laptop as an open box unit at Best Buy for $330 after tax.
This includes Battlefield 3, Skyrim, Portal 2, The Walking Dead, Doom 3, and several others.
This Samsung was purchased to assist my daughter with her school work for nursing school .
Have owned this laptop for about three weeks now.
For business users on the go, this is an excellent choice.
As received initially, the backlit keyboard was not working and it took a 2wk delay routing through a repair house to fix it.
Part of the reason for the potential damage on arrival was the poor packaging done by Amazon.
It has been under 2 mos and book is now flickering on and off.
After spending more than I originally intended for a new computer in order to get what I thought was one of the best available, I was sorely disappointed from the first time I raised the lid.
Later when the new and highly touted touch screen began flashing and then blanking out when the battery indicator still showed half charge I decided that my money had not been well spent, and I returned the unit.
The reasons why I chose AB9+ over AZI are:1) Asus Zenbook Infinity is not retailed yet2) Asus Zenbook Infinity is ~$2,0000 whereas AB9+ is $1,4003) By preordering AB9+ through Amazon it was only $1,2004) "SideSync" with Galaxy Smart phones <--- funfunfun5) The best screen resolution available now and near future (will be even better when Windows 8.1 comes out)I only used this device for one day doing some updates, installing few essencials, and shenanigans.
Between 6 to 8 hour battery life, very fast start up, does not get very warn due to the SSD drive.
There was a learning curve with Windows 8.1 (I had it upgraded from 8.0 for free at the Microsoft store).
There are directions on the internet for stopping the password requirement.
However after 6 months of light use this laptop died on me!
Which turns out is a lie.
Touchpad got annoying (especially when trying to left click) so I purchased an external mouse.
She used an old laptop from samsung for more than 8 years.
THE DIFFERENCE IS NIGHT TO DAY.
Our small office has used nothing but Sony Vaio laptops since we began back in 2006.
Who knows ... maybe by now the win-8 functions ok... after 18 months.. its a microshaft thingy ... Sony is AWESOME!
Amazon sent another one right away.
Came with windows 8.0; had to update to wndows 8.1.
The computer is fast, light and not heat.
Only difficulty so far is learning to use Windows 8(which is a step backward as far as I am concerned).
Swank  ;-)
I can setup a case # and RMA # to send the product/ accessory to the service center for diagnostics and service in the USA/ Canada.
By trying to modernize the system, Microsoft overcomplicated it.
Will continue to evaluate.
More hassles as I moved files to an external drive, then to the Asus, where they were hijacked into the cloud.
While I love the idea of a data cloud, we live in an area where our high speed internet connection comes and goes dependent upon our out-of-date infrastructure.
So reluctantly and after a week of attempts to forge a working relationship with the Asus, I returned it and am awaiting a new Dell tower complete with Windows 7 Pro.
The laptop took longer than expected to start up and there was some slowness initially when browsing the internet or using the various programs.
Considering the current high retail price for this unit, it might be best to wait until the price drops some more before deciding to purchase.
They find excuses in order to make guarantee not useful.
:(
I have been using this primarily for browsing and cloud applications however the laptop keeps dropping internet connections.
The mouse click is often erratic (right click vs left click).
In this day and age, a dual band radio with must better throughput should be included even in the lowest price notebook models.
You will quickly discover that Windows 8.1 becomes a pleasure to use with a touchscreen.
The 8 GB upgrade was only about $50.00.
I like the touchscreen - a big convinience for some tasks and useless for others (ie office applications.)
The mouse pad is wired thats the only cons.
The product is advertised as a NEW Dell Inspiron computer with pre-installed Office Professional 2013 software (not a trial version).
I contacted Dell support and after identifying the individual laptop, they told me that it was a refurbished one and that someone had previously used it and installed Office, and was now apparently trying to use Office on a different computer, so the software on my laptop was being deactivated.
(Note: If you ask Microsoft about it on one of their forums, they claim there is a setting under Pen and Touch that says "use finger as an input device" allowing you to enable or disable the touch screen.
I contacted Dell and had to do a Live Chat with the tech.
He took control of my computer and updated the Bios.
So, he said he would call back in a couple of days.
It was fine until the day he called.
Goes to sleep and wakes fast.
I live in a rural area with only 2.8 meg internet and we have to buffer videos all the time on the older computers.
It caused me to have to go through tech support only one week after purchase.
Mine went off 2 days in a row and then a couple of days later after that.
Have owned this computer a little over a week now.
I was able to get a seriously high quality lap top for my wife who is a student, pre-school teacher, and mom.
She loves the Windows 8 since she loves tablet systems.
It would not come on and no image on the monitor, so we sent it in for repair which was quick to trouble shoot and they sent a box to ship it back and we were ok with the process and they returned the laptop after 10 days.
They replaced a bunch of components inside but a week later it died again, another motherboard problem (??).
Now it is time consuming and afraid to load any software back on to it and waste hours and hours of that, just to have it wiped clean and a new motherboard installed, and start over again....
The 500 GB hard drive began to falter in late November-early December.
We bought this computer for our very responsible daughter to use at school.
i bought it on sale and for the price i am happy (330 tax included).
Internet is plenty fastNice small computer.
windows 8 is horrible, will not buy another HP product after this
Bought it for my daughter who is in school.
No complaints after 3 months.
The Acer Aspire S3-391-6497 13.3-Inch Ultrabook (Champagne) is fantastic.
One of the concerns, which people also suggested, is a strange layoutof the four arrow keys and PgUp/PgDn keys.
Then my solution was to inactivate the PgUp/PgDn by using free software.
(Repeat the cycle of full charge => full used for three times)This term can not be found in the quick guide and other printed materials.
after 3 days had to run system recovery and the problems remain.
I bought another computer for my Dad that had Window  8 in it last summer and found that operating system to be a nightmare (Sorry, Dad!).
Nice computer for older technology.
It starts very quickly (solid state drive) and performs well under pressure of multiple applications open at once.
They are becoming a Big company these days...
I ordered 1 of these as a holiday gift for the grandkids and was so impressed when it came I ordered another one for other family members.
Very bad experience , after one day the msi ge 60 is totally dead !!
Mine came with one stick 8g 1600mhz memory installed one free slot.
I was badly disappointed!Four days after the 30 day return limit (which is now 8 days) the LAN system began to fail.
The KillerLan system began to crash and I would have to reinstall from the drivers disk sent with the computer.
I called MSI and went through trouble shooting with their Tech.
His conclusion was that there must be a Virus (I was using Norton which was on the computer).
The solution he advised was to wipe the installation and re-install from the recovery disk (I ALWAYS create a recovery disk immediately upon getting a new computer).
So I inserted the MSI drivers disk to re-install the KillerLan drivers (3 insertions to get the disk to read) - the DRIVER INSTALL FAILED!
Several additional tries also failed!I am now stuck with a $1500 computer that seems to be slowly self destructing.
You live, you learn.
well just got it yesterday (love the 1 days shipping).
One or two keyboard keys get stuck from time to time.
She and her friends are pretty tech savvy and she loves it.
However, we sold it to make more room in our tiny apartment.
We were blessed with a second child and where my gaming PC (personally built) would normally be located (large nook in the living room); we needed that nook to make a third bedroom.
The item bought was advertised as a brand new item and had 91 updates still pending.
states that if the computer has been taken out of the box , he cannot take it back.
Duffer we had to take the computer out of the box to see what we found out that you had sold us a old computer and counted the money off for a new computer.
It was just in the bottom of a box with other items I ordered.... Office Supplies and Coffee cups.
This problem has been going on for some Sony users for months and Sony are, as I see it, negligently continuing to sell this defective laptop.
my daughter is enjoying this laptop, she was exited to go to college and have the right tool.
Highly recommend for high school, college, and home use.
!Would not believe the advertised savings.
Bought this to replace a Dell that quit and died on me after 2 years.
The first one stopped any internet connection due to a faulty wireless card.
The second fell a short difference onto a soft surface and the corner of the computer bent (very flimsy) causing it to arc from the power cord to the computer preventing it from charging and creating a fire danger potential from the arcing.
The last one also stopped connecting to the internet, along with the mouse and touchscreen working only at random times.
Waited months to find just the right deal.
On third day of use, however, the sound goes out completely.
Performing a hard factory reset now... which is agonizing after spending three days transferring files, loading programs, and getting comfortable with a new system... but am expecting to have to send it back.
:(
does not come with office but has norton antivirus 30 day trial
My teen ordered this for himself and loves the gaming abilities.
Would have given it a 5 but they shrunk down the keyboard in order to fit in speakers.
It has some sort of bios issue that caused it to need rebooting (via battery removal)  each and every time it was shut down or even just went into sleep mode due to inactivity.
Learned this only after 2 days of installing and updating.
The return package did eventually get found and returned to Amazon.
The computer gets one star, Amazon gets 5 stars!
I bought this from micro center because I had purchased another computer from amazon and had to send it back because of a personal preference issue and I did not want to be stuck with a postage charge again.
Finally, after four calls to support and their trying to fix the issue, they want to have the computer back so they can repair it.
It will take THREE weeks!
I used the computer for about a week and started having problems with the computer not waking up from Sleep mode.
I was new to Windows 8 and asked for instructions in resetting the computer.
After only having the computer for 7 days I told them this was unacceptable and they could sending a new computer would be the only resolution to this problem that I would be satisfied with.
I contacted Amazon, returned the product and went back to Toshiba.
Two days after I sent the HP back for a refund I got a call for the Case Manager apologizing about the problem and asked if I could send the computer in so they could fix it.
After explaining how disappointed I was in their product and poor Tech Support I told her I returned the product and was going back to Toshiba which I have used for years.
I now have to purchase Microsoft software package separately, this was not known before the purchase.
Bought this for mu husband when his last HP pavilion died.
He loves the speed, the aesthetics, the software etc.
He will probably be an HP lover for life.
Handles MS Office, Surfing, and play back smoothly.
I believe having support is NOT hiring idiots from another country to try to resolve issues they have NO knowledge of.
Called HP support (short wait time) and they sent out a replacement unit via overnight.
Another problem was there was no Windows 8 drivers for a old Minolta laser printerso check microsoft.
com , windows 8 link to check compatibility ahead of time.
Bought and have owned for a good 6 months now.
I had initially intended to purchase a Retina Macbook Pro; however, the fact you have to buy the top model to get a dedicated GPU was so not happening.
Cons:Windows 8/8.1 - Dreadful.
MSI made Windows 7 drivers available on their site though, so I will be downgrading shortly!
Idle around 35C, under stress up to around 70/75C.
I will not be changing the driver as I dont like to fix what isnt broke!Battery - The battery under stress (read: gaming) is awful.
2.5 you can take it go wherever u want, but do not forget prepare a big laptop bag for him or her.
Windows boots in under 10 seconds!Excellent ultra high resolution (2560x1440) touchscreen and responsive back-lit keyboard.
(2) USB 3.0 ports for storage and peripherals (GbE adapter is included).
Within 2 days the system would not boot to windows and one of the Sandisk SSD drives would not show in the BIOS.
I returned it to amazon and ordered a replacement the new one worked for 4 months and now has the same problem.
The split SSD drive (while allegedly faster) is a pain to use as you cannot repartition it and must store things on a different partition when one gets full and then remember where it is.
Programs and Microsoft items fill up the "C" drive and data is on the "D" drive.
The problem is the windows 8.1 and his bugs.
After 3 hours working with ASUS Tech support, they instructed me to return the computer due to a hardware problem.
Disappointing on a brand new computer.
Battery life is about 5 hours on regular web surfing and Office type work.
Also, battery bar showed a 5% battery wear on the brand new laptop, which has now increased to 8% in two weeks of use.
Tks the engineers who figure out a way to do that.
Each time the laptop will only boot into the "Aptio Setup Utility."
All info on the HDD is lost and unrecoverable.
Asus required sending the laptop in to replace the SSD.
The laptop was returned to me in working order, until the exact same issue happened again.
I sent the laptop back in for another 3 weeks.
When I received it this time, I found they had done exactly the same thing (replace the SSD).
Their customer service is poor.
the 2x usb 3 transfer files fast from external hard drives.
Sometimes when booting up the fan starts to race and the only way to stop this is to shut down the machine.
The first was sent back for exchange.
Have the laptop for over a few months now.
Real world usage is around 4 hours and depends on your usage habits (another reason for 4-stars).
System comes with two 128-GB SSDs in RAID 0 for 256-GB total, but the volume is partitioned into two drives, which may be a problem for some folks.
If you decide to restage it from scratch, (wipe it clean and re-install OS as I did), the drivers and applications are on ASUS web site.
Unfortunately, I think Windows 8.1 means Microsoft has finally lost the war to Google and Apple.
Sent in for warranty repair, weeks gone by and still WAITING FOR PARTS.
So feeble for a thousand dollar system.
Beat that M$, haha.
This machine has broken down 2 times already within 2 months.
Set up a littl cumbersom since little printed info comes with the ui.
Hard Drive crashed day 92 and Toshiba had the nerve to charge me to have the product shipped back to them.
Cons:HeavyBigDat battery life yoSSD weirdness (windows 8 does not recognize the RAID0 SSDs as SSDs.
plays every game on max.
move user documents and other user folders to D drive3.
install applications with a lot of write traffic to E drive instead of C (to preserve your SSDs)
RAID SSD boot drives fly.
Everything about this laptop screams, super fast boot up & shutdown.
It was at their repair office for 3 days and got a new adapter, a new hard disk drive, and was reprogrammed.
It was sent back fed ex.
This was bought by my son who is heading into college as a budding architect.
Loves the graphics, works well with his CAD and gaming so he now has both of his worlds together in one.
This laptop is insane, everything on Ultra with high FPS.
yes this model (the G750 JH) includes assassins creed IV black flag for free.
however, The 780M completely blows away the 860M and 870M cards that are on the other newer additions o the G750 family.
most people that buy a gaming laptop arent buying it with the idea theyll be taking it everywhere they go, especially when it clocks in at around 11 pounds.
:) was umming and rrring whether to spend this kind of money - but its been great, had small issues at start with power cable and touchpad but once released new patches the issue disapeered.
We ordered this computer through Amazon, fulfilled by Datavision.
It arrived last night and is defective.
They do not pay for return shipping.
My son really wanted this laptop after researching all possibilities.
ASUS has learned from their past mistakes.
All in all a great machine, shop around to find the best price (bought this one elsewhere) and enjoy!
Received this laptop with a dead GPU fan which caused temperatures over 100C, contacted ASUS who (after a week) told me its normal for this laptop.... BS.
Cores never go over 70c and the gtx780m never goes over 80c (even with extreme stress tests).
However to my disappointment is the flaw in the Windows 8 operating system that just seems haunt a good portion of regular computer users that believe in the continued productivity that a traditional pc and keyboard setup can produce.
Though in concept it may seem like a great idea to be able to render the text among multiple devices "universally"; in practice, it just set personal computers back several years (Great job Microsoft!).
So after further research, it turns out the problem is not ASUS but rather an operating system that just threatens to send productivity back to the stone age.
I cannot blame ASUS for distributing it with Windows 8 since the same way WIndows XP got shut off from further support from Microsoft; Windows 7 will also face the same fate.
Once, after an update, Google chrome disappeared.
Computer Dead on arrival.
It took most of the day to update all of the windows software; however, the system is quick and I was able to work with the system.
(But the problem seems to disappear gradually.
Not the latest technology, but buy it for a young student who starts and needs to learn.
It was fast enough to run my favorite game, Lord of the Rings Online, using DirectX 10 at high settings (my Asus can run it on ultra high and everything turned up, but it was also 3 times as expensive.
the computer boots up right away/ it is a great buy for the money.
Had a Lenovo G555 for over 3 years and the graphics quit, so went with this one.
Upgraded to windows 8.1 and it is tolerable, however miss Windows 7.
One is in college and one is in high school.
Computer should have come  factory installed with 8.1 as the computers are now.
Called Microsoft and for $250.
Computer unfortunately was sent back.
I decided to go against my norm and bought a lenovo.
I have previously owned two toshiba laptops and they have performed well over their life spans of three and two years respectively.
Both charger and battery have been placed in a similar unit and no problem, however no luck with it working in mine.
Numerous calls and e-mails to lenovo will not help.
Greetings, The Division of Radiologic Sciences at UNC at Chapel Hill seem to be well pleased with their purchase.
I bought two of these for my kids to use for school and general use (Internet, light gaming, etc.)
Lenovo is rated at the top of computer names for the good quality parts they use.
bought for wife for christmas,  real fast.
This computer was purchased and sent to an older relative in another state.
The computer has worked well, although the new Windows operating system proved difficult for this person to learn.
In an age where companies do not keep inventory, but contract directly with manufacturers to ship products to customers, it has proved difficult to get a replacement battery.
esp after considering the price!
plastic covering one of the hinges popped open and wont snap back in place (cosmetic issue only).
Power cord failed to charge battery shortly after warranty expired because of motherboard problem.
Bought as a Christmas Gift for my daughter-in law who is a Nurse and a teacher at local collage, loves the touchscreen.
Laptop works awesome with windows 8 and got free upgrade to windows 8.1.
However, after several crashes with the laptop when my nephew plays Mine craft I am happy that my laptop is a mac book pro.
Have found no problems other than the keyboard mouse are a little different getting use to.
After only two weeks I ran into trouble.
However, the same thing happened after I  this time knowingly - updated an outdated driver (I just followed a notification from the taskbar).
This time the trouble was more serious: The laptop oscillated between the startup screen, a black screen, and eventually the blue screen with the Driver Power State Failure.
Repeated attempts to get back into the system failed.
As these actions did not change anything, she eventually diagnosed a defective hardware component.
Eventually I had no other choice than to do system recovery which - by default - erases everything.
(My 7  year old HP laptop never crashed!
I am going to return this laptop and order a different IdeaPad from Lenovo, hopefully with more luck!P.
S. In the meantime, Ive read other reviews and found that others have remarked about driver issues.
Excelent seller with rapid send ihave any problem with grafic card and Windows 8 because Microsoft is not a fu tuonato operation staremo but tue pc is ok and have only 2,5 kg
So we decide to ask for a return and it took 3 weeks to reply back.
So they decide to add a 25% return fee for a new laptop, meaning I pay more for their wrong doing.
Had the Lenovo for a couple months now and love it.
Got for a good price ($580) during black friday deals, but useless!
This laptop arrived on time and safe, that`s why I`ll continue shopping from this seller and recommend JustBEST to all my friends.
!The Windows Experience test revealed 4,9 out of 10 score.
It lasted 2,5 hours continuously copying files from different partitions of an external HDD (permanent working internal HDD and also powering the externat HDD),at HIGH PERFORMANCE battery setup.
My two weeks confusion and research finally solved this laptop.
Great laptop for the price and specs, I got it for 959$ on sale, I updated to Windows 8.1, updated nvidia driver to 327.02 (its the newest that can detect dual GT750M), laptop is pretty fast however the 1TB 5400 RPM hdd is a bottleneck, I will be swapping it for a Samsung 840 EVO 500GB, installed battlefield 4 and I can get 50-60 fps on High and 70-80 fps on medium, very happy with this laptop perfect for mobile gaming :)
Price when purchased was 948.00.
).
THEY DO NOT COVER SOFTWARE the only option is to buy the 60 dollar CD that should have been included with the computer.
She is very happy.
Thanks :)
Good value deal, the laptop has all parts/component advertise on the internet.
7 pounds= to a baby.
All the apple girls go crazy.
There are 2 GPUs but due to power saving by default only one GPU is being used.
The built in main 750M is okay for most models (however many are factory defective and does not have thermal paste applied properly), however the Ultrabay VGA may be a deal breaker for many people.
The 650M in the Ultrabay can operate on relative acceptable temps (max 176F-185F), however the higher clocked 750M (and also the 755M) with higher core voltage will reach 208F in a matter of minutes and starts to throttle with GPU intensive games, like Crysis 3, Bioshock Infinite, Witcher 2, etc.
It runs without any lag on any internet game I want (like league of legends).
It has everything he wants to play all his games on it.
He also uses it to do his school work and talks to all his friends on Skype.
The hard disk went bad after a month of use!!!
Do they not test these product before shipping.
&#128070;&#128076;&#128076;
I think, for the money I made a great investment in a home computer and have had ZERO issues with programs, apps, and computer function!!
The charger had a hard time staying in the battery port and the computer had a hard time performing minimal tasks like opening PDF files.
The Acer Laptop is a very portable computer and is able to do most jobs, the one glaring item missing is a connection for a wired network.
While not a "true" ultra book it runs close to one- quick boot up, low heat and 5 hour battery.
The Acer did both for him.
Was shopping in all the stores for an acer and they were overpriced then I checked out amazon and they had the sweet deal, I bought it and it was at my house in 2 days.
After struggling with a new windows 8 computer for a few months I decided to see if I could find a leftover windows 7 model.
had to take to a friends house to connect to his internet in order to get set up.
Used primarily for travel.
We tried to install Microsoft office and the entire computer went down beyond repair!
I have had this computer for two weeks and have watched Netflix streaming programs via home WiFi.
The computer does wake up in 2 seconds due to the hybrid hard drive.
The cost is the lowest when comparing similar features with other brands.
Asus wisely chose a hybrid drive which includes a small SSD drive for the operating system and a 500 GB traditional hard drive for everything else.
She might as well learn to use Win 8.
They are sending a label so that my "new" laptop can be out for service for another week.
Bought this for my son, who runs high graphic & memory hogging games.
He will be excited to have his own and have to share with is sister and mother.
aFTER DOING ALL KINDS OF CHECKS TO INSURE PROBLEM WAS NOT WITH WINDOWS, COULD NOT KEEP  COMPUTER FROM FREEZING UP, APPEARED TO HAVE PROBLEM WITHIN KEYBOARD..
Purchased the laptop new as a Christmas present, and the machine arrived broken.
Gift for my grandson to relace his old computer ..
Was late arriving due to weather conditions.
with time to spare,thus no stressing.
Would purchase from same vendor again.
The shipping was fast, and nice package, brand new laptop, fast as expected, and fulfilled my expectations when it comes to gaming and other necessities
This is the second ASUS we have purchased in the last year; this one for my wife and her business (restaurant.)
Works very fast with Quickbooks Pro and her other business software.
quick arrival, great computer.
Was the hard drive corrupt?
However, I have already sent this unit in for repair, and I was having issues with it within a week of recieving it.
A BIOS update seemed to work, but only short lived, as did other solutions by the network assistant and online HP support solutions.
No dual band WIFINo HDD led.
No SSD Drive (its hybrid, normal HDD with SS cache).
Based in web reviews, this computer has blacklisted HDD and WIFI adapter.
I found the transition to the new operating system (Windows 8) difficult and frustrating.
Seems to have everything he needs.
Love it - The Lenovo IdeaPad S210 59387503 11.6-Inch Touchscreen Laptop (Black) - is Small, portable, and quick.
I bought this Idea Pad for my daughter, however in just 2 months, the key board stopped functioning.
The ON OFF button broken after 1 day!!!
We bought this laptop for our granddaughter (7) for Christmas.
I always buy Lenovo (and IBM before them).
Format a USB stick (at least 4GB free space) using FAT32 (NTFS will not work).2.
Copy the Windows EFI files to the proper location.
EFI from an existing Windows 8 or 8.1 installation (the one you are building this USB installer on).
The standard location is in C:\Windows\Boot\EFI\bootmgfw.
EFI (case insensitive).
Easy switch from apps to desktop and back.
Bought this for my princess, great product, she loved it!Would have hoped for a smaller power supply unit.
Also my daughter uses Lenovo where she works as well.
This light weight versatile laptop is the best for a graduate students travel companion in the VUCA environment.
As to the rest I am still learning how to use the new computer set up.
My son was away at collage and his Sony Vaio screen hinges detatched from screen (dont by a Sony Vaio).
He was able to set it up and transfer data using the Windows 8 easy transfer.
Just bought it at Frys for $278 a week ago.
with an 8GB RAM module (e. g. $70, PNY 8GB DDR3 1600 PC3-12800 204-Pin CAS CL11 Memory Module (MN8192SD3-1600)).
One of those screws was additionally under a warranty sticker ;-) After that I used a credit card to force open the plastic chassis (see diagram for the location to start).
I get 3h to 4h (optimized power consumption).
I run Windows 8.1 (Windows 8.1 update was visible after all Windows 8 updates have been applied).
Hopefully someone will offer a high capacity battery :-)
Very fast even with only 4 gigs (8 gig upgrade available).
Bought this laptop on cyber Monday sale for just $270.
Also, the power adapter provided supports universal voltage (110-240).
Stop working after a few days.
Arm must be held in the air.
Didnt pay to get in the trouble of fixing.
USB ports are in a bad location compared to other laptops, but this was known before the purchase.
Windows 8 with a number of hidden partitions leave the user with 70 GB of free disk.
However at 30 days the mother board when out.
The machine crashed and will not boot 6 months after purchase.
Touchscreen works very well and I like the fact it becomes a tablet protecting the keyboard (the only model I know with this feature).
Bought directly from Dell and called them within 30 days and told them about the issues.
There goes 10 business days and I call again and now I am told part is in backorder and have to wait another month.
After some confirmation agreed for refund verbally but would not send any email or confirmation and return label.
Now they are not answering my calls and not returning my messages.
Bluetooth mouse(after redoing some settings) is a fine add-on.
Powered USB port allows charging of the (Bluetooth) mouse, whether laptop is on charger or not.
Battery operation(fully charged) starts at about 9+ hours and seem to last and last with built in power saver operations managing battery use.
Start up and shut down is breathtakingly quick.
You go to look for driver updates and it will give you driver updates that 1) do not apply to your computer, but give you all updates for all Windows 8 64-bit, 2)  you already have newer drivers already installed 3) leaves you hunting, pecking and guessing for which updates apply to your particular computer.
Owners manual ONLY tells you how to physically(literally) tear the unit down to the frame and remove every component but has no operational value whatsoever, which leaves you with the 2 page quick start guide only.
After 3 months this computer worked no more.
Dell Inspiron 17R i17RM-5162sLV 17.3-Inch Laptop is a great laptop for only $629 dollars.
The Getting started with Dell was no help whatsoever.
There was not information on how to move from the former Start menu to the new Start menu.
After contacting Dell, people from India which had very poor English speaking skills and even worse listening skills, I was told that the computer had to be built and it would several weeks to get it.
It took over three weeks to get it.
Good computer, terrible India based customer service.
Their are no Dell customer service in the USA.
(e)  When you touched it, it continued to put Es across the page until you physically lifted up the key or hit it several times.
First, we could take it to a dealer who would repair it or we could return it and get another.
It took a while to get the label and we continued to use the computer.
I had previously used a Dell Desk Top model with all the "bells and whistles" which used much space in my home office - and was constantly having problems with the hard drive (due to the age of the unit).
The computer performed flawlessly during initial boot up and transfer of programs and files.
Windows 8 is challenging however it is worth the money.
However , its been advised that 1 year suscribtion is free with the purchase ...
I bought a Dell Inspiron 15R i5RM - 7538sLV 15.6inch laptop and it arrived with a Quick Start Guide but it is in Spanish I need English instructions to navigate and get acquainted with my laptop??
Love my new toy all I have to do now is learn the new Windows 8  system.
Bought this as a gift for my daughter , who is in college.
She loves, its her first time using Windows 8.1 but she is a quick learner.
after trying to "save a few bucks" I broke down and bought a Dell.
Configuration (i7 processor, 8GB RAM, 1 TB HDD)2.
Keyboard (Keys are really smooth to work)5.
"Great Laptop", so the call to receive it at our house.
I purchased this for my wife because she has been taking over my old laptop and when I get it back all my settings are changed.
After firing it up, running all of the Windows Updates (Including Windows 8.1 update) and then manually removing all of the bloatware it runs like a champ.
When the screen went blank - I took it into the local computer shop.
This computer is a little over one year old - and is used for school work - so not heavy usage!
Also, after getting used to Windows 8.1, it seems to be a good operating system as well.
So far, Ive had good luck with Dell computers and have previously purchased six of them (5 for grandkids).
Windows 8 (would get 2 stars) is another story..  You read about the learning curve but dont realize how much until you start using the computer.
The biggest problem that I found with Windows 8 is the difficulty in backing up the system.
Very difficult and time consuming in Windows 8 because of the additional BIOS security restrictions.
Unfortunately, Windows 7 support (drivers, etc) will be going away.
I purchased this for my daughter who is a college student and financial manager for a large Finger Lakes winery.
Downloaded and installed the free 8.1 update with zero issues.
We purchased for our youngest daughter to play school games, surf the web and play some online games she enjoys.
This laptop will easily meet her needs for several years to come.
Later.
Hard drive crash after 8 months - you get what you pay for  cheapy laptop
The computer arrived fast, and works great.
Will buy another the same way, soon.
This is an amazing computer, super powerful and gets the job done quick.
As a Matte Painter this machine tears down through programs like Maya, 3DS Max, Cinema 4D and Photoshop.
However, only when I installed Ubuntu I realized that the components have been specifically chosen to not run Linux.
But, to make use of the GPU and learn CUDA programming.
Due to expensive, so choose a day to express.
Dell changed their models after christmas.
This thing will handle anything from the Full time (Hardcore) games to the Graphic Designer.
Returning this laptop within the first week of purchase.
Not happy with the fact that I contact the manufacturer to help resolve a manufacturer defect and they try to sell me software in order to fix it.
Item arrived on time, in new condition.
I found that having 2 different programs in your business is very frustrating..... just creates another problem at work....... changed new computer back to win 7.
Placing the order was easy, however the issues started later as I was to come back to India within 6 days and I was informed that the laptop was last in transit.
I had some questions for the sender and they responded back quickly with helpful information which was ideal.
This system was purchased to replace an antiquated desktop system for my 87 year old mother-in-law.
She loves it and made a great personal gift for her birthday.
They never used it until June(first and only time for about 5 min)... A week later when they turned it one again the screen stuck on Automatic repairing then screen went black.
Microsoft screwed up trying to make a computer into a social networking device.
everything works well & fast.
I have this computer for only 2 months and have already had to send it in to get the hard drive replaced.
The window for returning the computer is only a month, so there is no hope there.
She just hates windows 8 with a passion but besides that, a good buy
So I had my daughter check it out ( she works in a doctors office and uses computers daily) and she could not get it working right either.
Our daughter has been using her laptop for online schoolwork, games and browsing constantly since we got it for her - no complaints yet.
Two days after receiving this computer it would not turn on.
I removed the battery (it was already in the laptop when it arrived) and put it back in.
I have heard good things about Dell since my purchase and have told my family to get a Dell when they purchase their next computer.
It is his independents, he is like a big boy.
Whenever he want to look up something he just use his Dell laptop instead of the home computer and he watch movies on it with his other 2 brothers.
All programs open quickly and doskonale.
She is already using it and loving it.. She will be using it with herenglish AP class and American history.
Also the shipping was free to me but the seller charged 20%+$14.
to take the computer back.
He is a computer nerd and is on the computer everyday.
So far (about 3 weeks) of daily use, no problems whatsoever.
Boot from CD was disabled in CMOS.
Perfect machine for a non-gaming home use computer.
I will continue to buy Dell Products, they stand behind their computers
THE COMPUTER WAS INEXPENSIVE, SHIPPED QUICKLY AND HAS FABULOUS FEATURES!
IT DOES NOT HAVE MICROSOFT OFFICE INSTALLED; HOWEVER, FOR THE PRICE, IT WILL BE PURCHASED AT A LATER DATE!GREAT BUY!
You only have 60 days after purchase to get any help with software on this computer.
After so long they want to charge me for the back ups.
Sending a computer back and forth in the mail is a pain.
I must say dell goes all out with their pre packaged softwear .
Grand daughter needed a new laptop and this one seemed to fit the bill for a 12 year old needs for school work and a nice one for games and every day stuff.
2 Dells over the lastb 2 years the harddrive crashed.
I did a search on theamazon site, and this was included in the search results.
My son uses it for school and loves it.
Love the Dell audio system bundled with the computer.
And plenty on inputs and outputs for all my accessories (including the much valued HDMI port)
Laptop arrived quickly and in good condition.
I have now decided always buy  good models regardless of the price,never go for cheap deals, they have low priced items installed in them.
I loved it, once all our family helped my husband learn how to navigate on his laptop, he too loved it.
It works great for him and he uses it to watch movies, play games, and do a few school assignments!
;)
The upgrade to Windows 8.1 was a nightmare as I had to get help from both Microsoft and Dell.
I use the laptop for the classes I take from the local community college.
Laptop was defective, upon arrival.
Purchased for my college student whose computer crashed during finals week.
I ordered this computer for my 12 year old daughter.
We have 2 other laptops (Toshiba and Acer) at home which were purchased with similar prices.
Within one month of buying this laptop the hard drive crashed.
This computer was purchased specifically for the children in the family.
Currently four children are taking two hous a day and loving it.
They have their own sign-in and password and the set-up was easy.
I have purchased Dell computers before and have found them to be a great investment.
We switched to Dell computers for our medical staff after using Toshibas for years until the Toshibas became problematic.
in fact at Walmart the same computer is only 20 dollars more.
:(
best buy had this for 179, they are all sold out.
I sent in request for assistance and received nothing.
Save your $$ and purchase an Apple.
The touchscreen is a must have with Windows 8.1!
Only downside is the batter life.
Spent 65 minutes on phone with Lenovo tech service tr try to get unit to boot up.
daughter luvs it
the product is perfect, the use environment is dynamic but windows 8 is somewhat complicated at first, but is an excellent choice for a laptop under $ 1000
I contacted Amazon to try to return this frustrating non working computer and since it was 3 weeks after the guaranteed refund date they want to charge me a 20% restocking fee.
This is how Amazon treats a loyal ten year customer with over 225 orders.
Light, beautiful, quick, comfortable.
Now, that is a whole different ball game.
He is definitely a computer geek, so him being impressed with this laptop is definitely saying something.
I am just outside my 30- day window (trying to give myself time to "get used to it"), and will now be trashing this computer and buying another one.
I knew I wanted to go smaller for portability and planned to hook it up to an external monitor when I was at my desk.
Windows 8.1 took some getting use to the newer operating system.
I only discovered the non-chargeable after j loaded new software and drivers for my other devices
After a week, the capacity went down all the way to 80%.
My L502X is now lasting up to 8 and a half hours on a full charge under light stress (Photoshop and Lightroom).
Have tried off-brand laptop batteries in the past with strongly mixed results.
Laptop is advertised as having a dedicated graphics card.
The model number of the laptop I received matches this one, however, when you search for this one on the Toshiba web site, it clearly states that this model comes with the Intel HD4000 integrated chip set.
As stated by the previous reviewers, the graphics card on the product I received is different from the product advertised.
However the shipment came in a delicate box surrounded with plastic air bags to avoid damage and movement so the start rate went up for the good packaging and state this item was delivered.
I got this for a friend and first I was skeptic to carry it all the way back home.
The day after I started using it, after it sleeps, when I try opening it up again the screen stays black.
Windows 8.1 now ships on all new computers.
My son is picky on what he wants in a laptop.
He was able to connect during flights and play games and communicate.
Why are they still selling these defective machines.
They use a third-party company called Nexicare who will charge you $800 to fix the touchscreen and $130 just to look at it.
After having owned this one for 3 months it developed a line from top to bottom on the screen.
Really fast, I used for development (Biztalk, SQL & C#) so far the response of the laptop is great!
Y obtained by buying recommendation of friends
Biggest mistake, they have the worst Tech Support.
They were simple to operate.
However it meets and exceeds my daughters needs and since she is on it day and night it has held up nicely.
As an average user: documents, media, internet, medium gaming this laptop works perfect in every situation.
Just a normal laptop for daily usage.
Windows 8 was a breeze to get up and running despite all the bad press.
Still working great 6 months later, but internet explorer 11 which comes installed on this machine is a very hit and miss affair.
The same day I shipped the Dell back to Amazon, the Toshiba arrived on my doorstep.
Got it for my sister who lives in another state since her 3yrs old intel celeron laptop is overheating and so far she loves it.
In addition the mouse pad will suddenly not operate keeps sticking.
Have to use a wireless external mouse.
However, this week, out of the blue, the the computer showed an error: "No Bootable Device" which is basically that the hard drive was dead.
I had to buy a new hard drive (around $100) for the computer and a wifi card since I had been having trouble conecting to WiFi networks.
We purchased this to maintain records for a Youth Fishing Education program.
The gateway computer was also nice the both loved their computers
great unit all one would need  for on the go mointor home  email quick as a flash  at a very good price  received in two days regular shpt.
My son, who is 10 years old, saved up his money for almost two years to buy his very own lap top.
We decided on the toshiba sattelite on Black Friday.
For example, if I listen to the radio online and browse the web at the same time, the radio will play broken voices/sound.
check out better deals around town.
Well when it arrived it was dead.
Only drawbacks are windows 8 (not their fault) and sharp corners.
Also loaded with Windows 7 which is getting harder to come by for those of us needing the older operation system.
Now loaded office 2010 pro and I am ready to go - all in all 5 minutes to set up (after charging)!
Finally the next morning with it, the computer completely seized going from the app screen to the desktop.
Cons :Battery life is small when compared to the tablets.
No place to store the stylet with the device.
The same  as described, brand new.
For some unexplained reason the Bluetooth driver got corrupted or whipped out, was easy to reinstall from the Sony website.
Sony VAIO Duo 13.3 inch is a 2 in 1 laptop which is ok to work with in tablet mode but is not at all good as a laptop.
Also make sure that you get the one with the desired memory (4 / 8GB) as the memory as per Sony is wired to the motherboard and cannot be upgraded.
Memory36GB Dual Channel DDR3L 1600MHz (4GBx1 + 2GBx1)Hard Drive4750GB 5400RPM SATA Hard DriveVideo Card5Intel HD Graphics 4400Optical DriveTray load DVD Drive (Reads and Writes to DVD/CD)Display17.3 inch LED Backlit Display with Truelife and HD+ resolution (1600 x 900)WirelessDell Wireless-N + Bluetooth 4.0Primary Battery44 WHr, 4-Cell BatteryPorts, Slots & ChassisExternally Accessible(2) USB 3.0 + (2) USB 2.0RJ45 EthernetHDMI v1.4aCombination headphone/microphone jackKensington Security LockAC Power InMulti-media Card ReaderDigital (SD) Memory CardSecure Digital High Capacity (SDHC)Secure Digital Extended Capacity (SDXC) with UHS 50MB/SecMemory Stick (MS)Memory Stick PRO (MS Pro)Memory Stick XC (MSXC)Multi Media Card (MMC)Multi Media Card plus (MMC+) Supported in MMC compatibility mode onlyDimensions & WeightWidth: 16.2 (412mm)Height: 1.12 (28.34mm) front / 1.17 (29.6mm) rear with 4-cell/40 WHr batteryDepth: 10.6 (270mm)Starting weight of 5.82 lbs (2.64 kg) with 4-cell/40 WHr batteryRegulatory ComplianceENERGY STAR 5.2 qualified/EPEAT Registered6Product Safety, EMC and Environmental DatasheetsDell Regulatory Compliance Home PageDell and the Environment
I had to replace my previous computer suddenly when my house was broken into.
Very happy with the price, easy ordering, fast shipping and protective packaging.
They said Eastern weather was to blame, what is wrong with telling the Customer instead of leaving him hanging?
Bottom line, they sold something they did not have.
I had to contact Amazon about this and after they contacted them I got answers.
I bought this hp for my little sister who just started high school!
Then when I downloaded Office which comes with the computer, everything move slow, just trying to open office took forever.
Did follow recommendation of previous owners to complete set up manually instead if quick set up.
She loves it, need virus protection!
Bought for 17 year old niece.
Read other reviews and follow instructions.
quick good for student or traveling thanks for advice.
Can Publisher be installed?
The problems centered around getting the Microsoft Home and Student software up and running.
However, Amazon came to the rescue and after a month or so of going between HP and Amazon, things got straightened out.
The specs just did not live up to their promise.
The only drawback is the clumsy, Windows 8.1 which has changed a number of established (20-year) keystrokes and taken away the "START" menu.
This devise came with a pre loaded virus.
The computer was easy to set up, and operate.
It has no optical (CD/DVD) drive.
The best money I ever spent on a computer and this is from someone who is not a techno geek.
They keep up with the times and stand by their products.
This little unit can take forever to load and run programs and webpages.
Love it ,a friend just purchased one new and paid quite a bit more for the exact same laptop.
I spilled apple juice over the key board within the first month and called hp care in a panic, as I need this laptop for school.
They could not retrieve my  data as the system was fried.
But the cost of repair covered everything including new parts and postage.
This is a great small computer for our students.
Allow time for the Windows updates and the initial virus scan at the beginning.
A gift to my son in college.
needed to purches an external CD/DVD drive.
Will purchase another in future
Light & slim.
As advertised.
He uses it for school and the Touchscreen is a great feature on the computer.
This was easy to set up(except for our email account)!
Great little computer that meets his needs.
mine is silver on the outside --- not a big deal
He loves the touchscreen.
However the free Microsoft Office make it worth the buy.
Nowhere does Amazon tell the buyer that the Microsoft Office is only a 30 day trial and you will need to spend another $110 very soon.
Actually playing titanfall using a dualshock 4 as controller pairing to the laptop Bluetooth.
very nice, sleek - no dvd, but that cuts down on weight, ordered an external dvd device to keep in the office
There is a bit of learning curve with windows 8, when switching from 7.
I bought this as a gift for a grandson who is computer savvy and is heading to college in September.
He picked this unit based upon his needs and expertise.
The first laptop arrived in two boxes, an amazon outside box and the original dell laptop box inside the outer box.
Unfortunately whatever punctured the outside of the box went all the way to the top of the laptop and left a sizable dent in it.
The shipping on this was 2 day so it could make it before leaving to Hawaii for business.
She loves it and the battery life is awesome, it lasted for several hours without charge, (my friend forgot to plug the power connector in) Great performance for the price.
In addition the intel intergated graphics package leaves a lot to be desired.
The computer was returned to Amazon for a refund.
Purchase this computer for my cousins at his request, he did his research and this is what he wanted... and it worked out just fine...
Dell is supposed to be a leader in computers and service.
Issues logging onto the internet.
We spent hours with the Dell Support Team who although willing to help never got the computer up and running like we would have liked.
My son has had his Dell computer for about 8 yrs and it belong to his dad before that and he had it for 5yrs.
When this Dell Inspiron was advertised on special for Black Friday it seemed like the best time to purchase a new computer.
When it arrived, my son was blown away by all of the features that came with the system, he could not stop thanking his dad and I for the new computer.
This computer kept buffering during movies and locking up, so I have been trying to contact Dell for what they call an "easy return" for two weeks now.
He was put on hold for a "return specialist".
The call was finally answered only for him to be told yet again he needed to talk to a "return specialist".
Beware of dealing with this company - if you ever have to return anything, they will make it next to impossible to do so.12/18/13 - eveningHave received an e-mail from Dell.
They say they are going to e-mail me a return label - hopefully the situation will finally be resolved!
!12/22/13No such luck - still have not heard from Dell and have contacted them twice for the return label they promised.1/10Got my credit today - yay!
Did Dell mean to put everybody out of business.
After you tried this system, you are going to change you religious believes.
Installed a 120G ssd (7mm) and 8G dimm from Amazon (CT102464BF160B).
Works great and doeseverything he could want in a gaming computer.
This works best for gamers and business staff.
This machine runs WoW in ultra graphics in 25 man raids with xSplit streaming to Twitch tv, dual monitor using a Vizio M Razor LED 120hz HD TV at 60 to 100 Frames per second and latency between 60 and 100 ms.
Everything looked awesome, until I ran an index on the specs of the laptop, and found out mine has a 2.4 GHZ processor instead of a 3.4 GHZ processor.
Ready for gaming and college work.
Everything comes together with the Alienware 18.
Our son got this for his birthday and he was amazed.
It was a great gift for a soon to be college student who enjoys gaming.
Gaming crashes normal computers, but this computer has it all for a gamer.
Its perfect if you want to be able to take the full PC gaming experience with you on travels, or over to a friends house for example.
It comes with a driver disc, however most of the drivers are already pre-installed.
The two next generation consoles are modeled after gaming PCs, and they both have a graphics card.
With this power, this laptop can run the newest games on the highest settings, and this laptop will without a doubt be able to keep up with new games for years to come.
I have this computer for 1 year and three months (of course the 3 months are important) and I use it just for work nothing estrange like overclocking etc.
The mother board needs to be replaced , this is a problem apparently well know problem with all alienware computers just do your self a favor and google Alienware M17x power supply.
The laptop (when I ordered it) did not come as advertised.
com and will continue to order items through them albeit less expensive items.
Plays COD ghosts ultra graphics with no problem... skyrim too... it shipped same day and arrived next day.
I bought one in Aug 2013, 3 weeks later returned it to Best Buy where I got it, hard drive dead.
Item is going to be sent in to have the hard drive replace and then I will have a nice REFURBISHED laptop when I originally bought and wanted something new.
Purchased for a family member that is an email/facebook/youtube computer user.
Good computer for the money.
We bought this for our 16 year old who had been chanting Apple, Apple, Apple for 2 years.
Bottom line, she loves it.
We included a wireless mouse, and a USB drive so they could pull all of the files from their old mac and PC laptops.
She wanted orange.
However, the time finally came when my mom started watching Korean dramas using her iPhone, which I thought was a bad idea when she follows 20+ episodes a week.
Plus, HP has been a trusted brand of mine after having own several desktops made by the company.
When the computer came back the speakers did not work on volume settings over 40%.
I did not want to deal with trying to teach my kids about Windows split personality (Metro side vs. desktop side).
At school, the kids use MacBook Airs but these are out of our price range.
The HP Chromebook (we bought one with 4GB RAM, 32 GB SSD) has more than met my expectations.
The kids use Google Drive for all their academic needs, listen to music on Pandora/Spotify, have apps for photo and video editing, and found games they like.
Although Chrome OS runs very efficiently and fast, having 4 Gb of RAM is definitely worth the additional $50 investment, which also includes 2 years of T-Mobile 4G service.
If you are not in a hurry, you can choose the one sold directly by Amazon and save money.
Comes with 2 years of cloud storage(100 gb) for free, 2 month trial of googles music service, and a bunch of other really cool freebies.
After working with this Chromebook a month.
One sticker left a sticky residue that took an alcohol wipe to remove.
Purchased for daughter for school work, and she uses it everyday.
Super fast,ultra bright screen,with simpler controls ... ONCE you learn the system.
Click after highlighting a paragraph, i found in chrome help, that i use alt+e for a window to open with cut, copy ,paste options.
Lots of things to try and learn.
Saved $50.
This was actually purchased for a friend who want a very secure way to check on his portfolio with a large broker.
He want it to be secure.
The HP Chromebook with a couple of security setting was perfect!
But I soon realized that most everything I did on a PC was centered around the internet (and the Google ecosystem) anyway!
Chromebook came when stated and is in great shape.
com/gp/product/B00J49ZH6K/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp;=1789&creative;=390957&creativeASIN;=B00J49ZH6K&linkCode;=as2&tag;=civcikdx-20
I bought this for xmas for my son who is going off to college and it worked for a couple of months and then the speakers stopped working.
Not worth the money if it is going to start having issues after a couple of months.
14 inch is very decent sizeMain features:- Size- Battery Life- Looks- WorksWe need a computer for regular usage which can start quick and with a good battery life.
At $349, the HP 14 Chromebook is the perfect solution.
The outside surface behind the monitor is a white matte finish (white on my machine) and there is a 1 (or so) silver HP logo in the middle.
The bezel also has a thin 1.5 rubber bumper on each side and a long 12 rubber bumper along the top with a the web cam mounted in the lid.
The left side (back to front) has a Kingsington lock point, HDMI port, two USB ports, an audio in/out jack and an LED on light.
On the right side are (back to front) power port (with a 90 degree angle plug), an SD Card slot, a USB port, and the 4G mini card slot (which came installed and preconfigured).
The bottom has nine screws and four rubbery feet.
There are two audio slots and two perforated heat screens (molded into the body).
That last feature however, gets in the way sometimes if youre trying to set up two windows side by side.
Great for daily internet surfing.
A happy daughter a happy father.
:UPDATE:One hour later just got off the phone w/chromebook support.
There appears to be a problem with the laptop waking from sleep mode when not powered off.
So far the Chromebook 14 is still a winner with my daughter, allowing her to do all of her increasingly online based homework.
This computer is fast to start up.
My young daughter (7) got on it and navigated easily.
I did purchase mine from Walmart online because it came with more drive space and 2 years of T-Mobile 4g service (200mb) a month.
DON"T GET THIS!!
about CPU speed, how simple set up (15 min.
Having a Google enterprise on the cloud... gmail with a skin over it (Joe@JoeMosley.
com), calendar, contacts, drive (cloud storage), etc.
Now after one month... Chrome is up to version 35... but who cares it is always up to date.
I bought this for my mother to replace her ancient (yet classic) eMac.
The model I purchased also includes 2 years of Tmobile data.
:)
We bought this for our daughter.
With her school being google doc and drive driven, it was a no-brainer.
The 3g t-mobile network is not always a reliable back up when a connect is lost.
Next to each other, the same background photo shows truer colours on the samsung, the setting sun is more orangey.
Same goes for switching between tabs.
This model comes with mobile internet included.
The network provider is Fogg Mobile, a Swedish telecom company who have effectively outsourced the service to Three.
I already have a mobile phone contract with Three and mobile internet speeds in my area are relatively fast (Wapping in East London), actually they are usually better than what I get from my BT wired broadband over wifi.
Fogg mobile gives you 250 MB data per month free for 2 years, which is only enough to use in an emergency when nothing else is available.
She absolutely loves it and finds it easy for her to navigate the programs.
The "boot" time is amazing.
The only down side is the keyboard in small caps which, for a non typist, is not the greatest.
And you also have worry about virus protection.
Then, one night, while browsing the newspaper, while on the way home on the train, I came across an article on the Chromebook.
I made the purchase from Amazon along with the 2yr protection plan and spent a little over $400.
It arrived very quickly (In about 3 days).
I went to the site to purchase additional data and purchased 1G for $10 which had a window of 30days use or loose.
However, once I made the $15 purchase, I ran into another problem.
I called T-Mobile about this issue they attempted to trouble shoot the issue, I was on the phone with 7 different techs for over 2.5 hrs.
!the music began, the sky brightened, I had found the answer.
I ordered this new cheaper Chromebook from Amazon, then went to Bestbuy and found a 3.0 USB by J5 create for $20+ tax.
I received my new Chromebook from Amazon within 3 days of my purchase ( I did not opt for the free shipping route).
I plan to us a wi-fi connection but only in case of an emergency when the Internet is unavailable via an Ethernet connection.
Nice to be free from windows and spyware.
(There is no adjustment per HP.)
(Again, per HP.)
It can last for 10+ hours of constant use (writing papers)Cons:The restricted UI sometimes leaves you wanting.
Found this at Wal-mart for 350$4GB DDR32 years 200mb free data2 years 100gb free google storageI love the feel of this chromebook, it runs very fast without the smugness that comes with buying an apple product.
I love this computer and I plan to buy another one in a different color for my girls.
Emails and  browsing time is super fast and the vast choice of apps meet productivity needs i. e.  word processing, spreadsheets, database, creative projects, etc.
She uses google docs in school so it was up and running in a jif.
Never have to worry about missing homework or leaving at home, everything is automatically saved in the cloud and therefore she can access her work from anywhere.
Instant start up and shut down.
Please insert a recovery sub stick or as card" called HP after .40 they said they were going to send me a box in 2-3 days for me to send them the computer to fix.. they would have it 10 days then ship it 3 day mail back to me....
Have your  Gmail account ready to go and your on line in under 5 mins....
Just wanted to use this for searching the web and storing photos.
This loads the internet slowly, and storing and sharing photos is just frightening hard.
I purchased this unit as a test for company wide deployment for the medical office I am the IT administrator of.
It was properly charged and deployed to a doctor who uses it on a daily basis and charges it when needed.
the first two weeks were fine but then all of a sudden the unit crashed and would not reboot.
I hope this is not indicative of things to come as I ordered more of these units and they just arrived the same day as this incident happened.
It is a very good unit,  however it is advertised as having 100G of Cloud storage for free.
Love the computer.
Only get 200MB free each month for two years.
Want more be prepared to sign up for a plan.
Fast and quick to get access to sites to products, data and resources.
EVEN BETTER, the cellular coverage (200MB/mo) is FREE FOR LIFE!
(at least for the life of t-mobile or when they use some acquisition shenanigans to dump it).
The keyboard that chromeOS has chosen to go with has lower case letters on the keys.
I tried a "powerwash" of the device (reset factory settings) to no avail.
I came over from a PC and after many frustrating year with Windows I am happy that I made the decision to purchase this Chromebook.
Found the Chromebook to be best way to access the Internet.
The full keyboard and mouse pad respond quickly and smoothly.
Chrome browser responds very quickly.
It has everything needed already to go without any additional costs and without worry of virus protection or updates.
Included with purchase: 100 GB on Google Drive for two years and FREE wifi data 200 MB each month with T-Mobile 4G for life!
My kids use this for school and this has now become the main laptop for all in the house.
)*Useful extensions.
*Fast operating systemCons:*Limited apps, (no skype for instance)
We use it in out kitchen area to quickly check on websites, e-mail, etc.
It is also very light-weight and we plan to use it for traveling and use the free 3-G access.
Best part is it comes with free cellular data and wifi passes for plane rides!
Now that I am retired and my lap-top (I used for my previous business interests) died, I am happy to say I was able to get all the computing power I now need (and more) in this attractive lap-top.
The included programs available in the Cloud easily allow one to get away from reliance on Microsoft and Quicken.
Resolution OK for 66-year-ld eyes (recent 1920 res was getting hard to view).
1TB regular HDD keeps images and 20 Gb SSD is used internally as a cache for Windows 8.
This unit has a DVD/CDRW which is being phased out with most other companies, HP , Dell , Asus ...
I purchased at Best Buy for $800 and got Office home and student for $120.
I brought this to replace a dying i7 notebook two years old.
I was a lifelong Dell consumer, but dissatisfied with their customer service I chose to switch it up.
After a lot of research and discussions with tech savvy friends, I settled on Lenovo.
I use this computer for school, small business development, android programming and a variety of other uses.
The package had clearly been opened before and returned (not one security tape was in tact, no plastic packaging inside, and powercord had "HP Chromebook" hand written in silver sharpie on it).
Anyway, I just leave it under the couch, plugged in (with the new charger) and I always have an easy to grab computer.
Wish instructions for converting excel & word files from old computer were easier to follow.
Had to return it- but hoping to try another one- love the idea of the Chromebook.
Very convenient for working in a middle school- all the students use google docs- and they loved using mine too.
The keyboard layout has been change to remove these three needed and very useful keys.
When it crashed (and i lost everything) for the second time i decided i needed a new device.
If you are a intense gamer, do not have access to either internet in some form (if you are an ethernet person, you will need a USB adapter, but mine only cost $21), you NEED a disc thingy, then i would go with a different computer.
no manuals to trouble shoot and the charger malfunctioning and had to order another.
Suitable for writing documents and programming when commuting.
internet machine.
but quit working a few weeks back.
Charger died within one week.
Bought this for myself, and lo and behold, my daughter took it for herself on her way to college!
battery is completely dead, wont charge at all, wont even power up while plugged into wall outlet.
The charge stopped working about 3 months after getting it.
Still waiting for the replcement power cord since one sent with chromebook was recalled..
After only 3 months of use the battery will not charge.
Non of the "ports" for charging work.
The CSR offered an apology and offered to cancel the order which I accepted.
My son wanted a $2000 gaming laptop.
I wanted him to have a laptop for school at school.
He has an HP laptop too but it is too bulky to go into his backpack.
He has now recounted on a daily basis how helpful it is to have his own dedicated laptop for school at school.
Their school has most of the curriculum online now and largely interfaces through Google docs for written assignments.
He no longer needs to line up to share a laptop.
Now it is just open his Chromebook and start working.
He is getting homework assignments done at school during study session as well.
U. S. A. is country of immigrants... Why computer maker cannot make custom Bi or three lingual keyboard???
After some experimentation, the best solution is to connect it to a remote mouse.
Bought for daughter.
She likes it and is using it for school.
Stopped working after a few weeks.
No help from support as it was after the 30ays.
Struggled for weeks with HP.
I purchased this for my son who is in high school.
The small size and weight (2.3 pounds) allows him to carry it around all day.
Moodle, Khan Academy, YouTube, Google Music, Netflix, ReadIt all work great when connected.
His school already standardized on Google Apps so his friends can just log into his Chromebook with their own Google log in and securely share the machine.
He just closes the lid to sleep the device between uses so it is up and running in 2 seconds.
When she unboxed her present, she was impressed with this chromebook design.
She had no trouble using Google docs while playing music.
She also had no trouble streaming movies through the play movies app and youtube.
So before returning the chromebook it would be wise to investigate the problem.
This chromebook will not replace the PC or Mac for people who use it professionally (engineers, programmers, or scientist who use some specific professional software).
We got this Chromebook for our teenage son and he fell in love with it right away!
The Chromebook 11 an OUTSTANDING value for web browsing, e mail communication, file and document work and yes... even shopping on Amazon.
It boots up in seconds and requires no mal-ware or virus protection since everything is done in the Cloud.
the micro-USB charger takes forever to charge via a standard charger, but still great to have the option!
Have to resort to a slow phone charger which can only charge up when the chromebook is turned off.
These are super easy to use and for our purposes - use around the house and possibly on a trip, this works great.
HP Chromebook starts quickly and works well.
But this is not good--Google, Samsung (they have one) and HP need to get back to the drawing board on this one...
Can do anything possible with a web browser, but has limited internal storage, which can be supplemented with a USB device or Google Drive on the cloud.
Built for students.
Google Chromebook provides no way of contacting them when there is a problem with their products.
Hence now they sent us defective chargers and mine never worked properly from the beginning I am sitting for weeks without a computer that works.
I bought the chromebook to use for paying bills, email, games, and networking (mostly).
After a day learning how to navigate the Google drive and its file system, this Chromebook is a cinch to use.
I just sold a three year old Win 7 machine and gave away a Win 8 laptop.
Bought for our sons 14th birthday- but battery failed after 2 weeks.
Designed obsolescence sure is getting faster & faster (first every couple years, now every couple weeks... technology kinda becoming like a disposable razor!?!)
Girl cried her eyes out when she open her present.
then a battery recall....(still waiting for replacement)then unable to charge.... then unable to open...... then backordered... so no return possible.
Within  two weeks of purchase the laptop crashed three times, and the only suggestion Lenovo could come up with was to perform a system restore, which did not solve the problem.
Spent days performing system restores
Set up easy, online tutorials to acclimate to the new excel and word (which have finally left the last century) Will probably recommend for the sales force at work.
This was agraduation gift for a young grandchild.
She loves it and finds it meets all of her needs.
This is her third computer.
Lenovo wanted me to mail the laptop and were asking 2-3 weeks... fro a 2 week old purchase.
Looks professional and good for business meetings.
Quick question - Given that these models do not come with the digitizer pen (As sold on Amazon), would it work if one were to buy the digitizer pen separately on Amazon?
In order to buy the pen separately, the laptop body should have the slot available and the necessary software to operate the pen.
Can play most games (League of Legends, WoW, Diablo III, SC II, Fez, etc)League of Legends plays at the 1368 x 768 resolution at 60fps.
I had to use a USB mouse (which is ok, I would never play an RTS game without a traditional mouse)The tablet DOES have a fan in the system on the tablet portion for cooling purposes.
You can also upgrade the RAM to 8GB and install a 2.5"HDD in the keyboard base for increased storage (will be attempting both of these upgrades and will report back with the results).
Just trying to figure out new technology.
business and personal.
got free security for a temporary time.
Wayne jr.
It was chosen by my son who is my computer genius.
She is running Linux and has no problems.
Nice computer for the money.
It starts up instantly -my husband is jealous.
Furthermore, it took almost four weeks for the product to arrive and now I have spent additional hours determining that the product is worthless.
However, the wireless signal dropped off from time to time.
I had a computer "expert"  install the SSD and transfer the files from the HD to the SSD.
Live with the installed operating system or be prepared for a issues that are beyond the normal persons ability to overcome.
received the unit, it was not what we ordered.
We ordered the unit with a backlit keyboard and dedicated graphics card did not come with either feature.
Picked this up for the wife to use, she wanted something to watch her workout videos on.
support and they had to take it back to factory settings twice.
Also I paid $400 (actually more)  and saw the same unit on sale at Walmart for over $100 less!!
However, I have a few guides from Kindle on Windows 8 and am progressing .
It has been a life saver  to do her presentations, and vocabulary words, etc.
I discovered that the @ key prints" and vice versa, the # key prints the pound sign.
Was looking for a new laptop to replace my old HP used for home business and web surfing.
A few family members chipped in and bought this laptop as a birthday gift for a 17 year old girl.
She loves it and has spent a lot of time using her new laptop.
In great shape - I reconfigured for use for the Virginia Association of Workers for the Blind VAWB.
org they are moving all of their operations to their lodge in Burkeville, VA where they take care of retreats and vacations for visually impaired folks and their caretakers.
(after some tweaks and upgrades for their uses)
He is constantly comparing it to mine.... mine being on the losing end.
Will contact Amazon soon for exchange on for same laptop before the end of the warranty.
uses it for school and socializing with friends.
OUT OF THE BOX AND IN 10 MIN OR LESS SHE WAS ONLINE AND SETTING EVERYTHING UP.
My son was upset and now we want to return it.
Windows 8.1 is terrible for business use.
I was very bummed out when I tried to swap but there were no other ones to replace it with:(:(:(
This computer was ordered by my son for college.
Im happy :)
Bill Gates, Microsoft is not Apple so please stop trying to imitate them.
After a month of it running like an octogenarian, I spent $300 getting it up and running (almost doubling the cost of it).
had to send it back within 30 days very poor quality
Excelent design & portability !
This is a very good computer for people that just need the basics (office, acrobat reader, internet) and want to go to a computer everywhere.
The only area in which the NB15t falls short of the nb205 is the battery (3 cell rather than 6 cell.)
it crashed one day after it arrived it was OK the first day after that the screen stopped being able to be touched it sucked
Only downside is learning Windows 8 and the battery was DOA package was on time and packed well.
Sending it back again and then suing them in small claims court.
An external sound card is a must have, however.
The unit was easy to set up.
The battery would not hold a charge, as soon as the power cord was unplugged the computer would shut down and take a half hour to be usable again once it was started back up.
I had to purchase a $60 battery, which, by the way, was very hard to find, my husband is in IT and after an exhaustive search found a similar battery.
Replacing the battery enabled the laptop to be released from the power cord plugged into the wall to work.
I have a $1,000 Dell that promised 4.5 hours of battery life and starts crying at 3 hours, This Toshiba has 17% left after 4.5 hours!.
Though no fault of Toshiba, if you want Windows Media Center you will have to fork over another $99 for the Win 8 Pro Pack because Microsoft does not include it any addition of Windows 8 and will only sell Windows Media Center as an update to Win 8 Pro for $10 (it is included with the Pro Pack).
However, it appears to be very durable and survived being tossed in the air and hitting the floor as the result of a bad dream when I fell asleep in the recliner.
I also found getting into the BIOS or Boot Menu to be a crap shoot and you must change from UEFI to CMS to boot off an optical disk and then the system will not boot off of the HDD until you change it back.
This particular seller sold a computer that only worked for 31 days.
Instead of doing the right thing he hide behind the amazon refund policy.
:) Good price and it does everything he wants to do, although the new operating system took a little learning.
Only drawback is that the Microsoft Office product is not included in the purchase other than a trial version, nor was the Norton Anti-Virus.
had to return computer was defective upon arrival battery would not charge or retain power.
returned to amazon for refund
Only $400?
I bought this at BestBuy for $317.99 (including tax) during the Black Friday sale.
Returned to Toshiba for repair and they are wanting $800 to replace the touchscreen ($730 for the part).
Technology is just moving too fast to invest 1000 + dollars into something that ultimately becomes "obsolete" in a few years.
After overcoming an initial clumsey setup to a strange language I could not connect to my email, (password not accepted), so I returned the unit for a refund which was quickly activated.
After having the same problem on another device I found that the real password was only an 8-character item while I was trying to use a 9-character password that I had recorded incorrectly.
I bought this in local Micro Center store.
Fast shipping and ready to roll when received.
Can play new games as medium to high.
However, they require a lot of updating and tend to face the blue screen of death early in the life cycle.
I am a developer and security specialist - the laptop is used for such purposes.
The only negative is with Bluetooth on the Windows side but, that is a recognized problem on both 8 and 8.1, Microsoft screwed the Bluetooth stack.
Lenovo Warranty service is poor they forced me to ship it to them (no local service centers to drop it off at) and told me it would be 7 business days before I would get it back (provided they had the parts in stock, if not they could not give me a date).
***UPDATE*** After having the laptop for over 4 months I love the laptop!
On the other hand ASUS has the worst Product Support known to man.
Long life batteryIt,s fastI didn,t now this computer use only internet
Purchased for my HS daughter a birthday gift.
bought as a christmas gift for family member.
It has a good amount of memory, a disk drive(which is becoming harder to find), and a web cam.
We bought this laptop for our high school aged daughter so that it would carry her to college.
It is the perfect size fo him to carry on the job so he can do his patient notes anywhere he goes.
This is a pc for people on the go who want to stay connected to the internet.
the touchscreen makes a world of difference when using Windows 8.
Old guy frustrated with having to stumble around a new operating system.
Unit failed within three days of use, smoke emitted from the area of the power switch.
Just a simple computer to pay her bills and look up on the internet.
Still trying to get her to get the hang of Windows 8.
Wish they would stop changing the O/S.
I loved the computer itself - it was fast and nice keyboard and after 14 days of beating our heads against the wall and my friends avoiding me since my conversation was nothing but HELP, I decided to return it.
As the memory controller is on the cpu one can add up to 16 gigs of ram (two 8 gig sticks).
If you update to Windows 8 - you will lose the video card drivers for the NVIDIA GeForce Go 7600.
We are using for our business and the staff loves it.
Recommend to others:-)
Now we have to pay over a $100 to get it "cleaned".
My wife is returning to university to obtain her msn  and ultimately be a nurse practitioner.
HP pre-loaded software is good - system updates are a breeze.
Bought this for my daughter for her first year of college.
It runs hot and shuts down suddenly.
Hanging a lot and now it is day 42 from the purchase date  and most of the keyboard keys stop working at all.
I had some trouble trying to restore the computer to factory settings and HP support sent some recovery discs and it fixed everything.
Also their tech service is terrible.
They kind of blame the user for any thing that breaks and youll expect to be on the phone for 5 hours with a guy named Anish from India.
They really take forever to replace something at HP and their quailty is terrible.
It was purchased after reviewing several other sources - including Toshiba Direct, Best Buy, and Brands Mart.
Works as advertised.
The operating system Win 7 has some kind of group policy security setting that will not allow me to view or change Windows Features under the Program and Features option.
I bought it for 555 $(Refurbished).
I ordered Dell 15.6" Inspiron Laptop 6GB 500GB + 32GB SSD - i15zT-4802sLV but I received Dell Inspiron 15z-5523In presenting the product on amazon.
Able to run mtiple tabs at once.
I needed laptop primarily to complete my assignments, search web and watch online videos (occasional).
Seems to not have a very strong reception for internet in our area.
I use this laptop every day for a couple of months now and have had zero problems.
Once sent to asus, it takes  more than a week to return .
The windows 8 is horrible you get a cluster of unusable apps that have to be eradicated and are difficult to get rid of as theyre all bundled and so many are useless and require constant registering of info they shouldnt be asking for.
After two months of use the laptop stopped working.
An hour with Asus support did not solve the problem and am now returning it for replacement.
Finally ASUS site is down and I am unable to registered this product via online.
Good for college students and even high school students
Have been using for a cpl months now.
So far my sister in law is happy with the laptop, she is enjoying it thus far.
After researching and looking around, my husband and I decided on this new laptop.
Having to learn Windows 8, but....
Can be found at Bestbuy for $199.
Died within one day.
Mad at my self for not spending a little more money for cd drive and more memory.
Call HP for help fixing the problem and i was forced to talk to india idiots that cannot deviate from their scripted answers or they are lost.
It for my Daughter going to college.
and other tasks.
Though the original price of something like $450; to begin with, that is a steal for a 17" monitor - reason #2 of purchase.
Bottom line, everyone is looking to save here and there and in this economy, bargains and value are key; so again, this was a steal!
Item was returned for an exchange.
This is manufacturer-refurbished unit arrived in mint condition and contained the 100GB Google Drive offer intact!
The hardware is well integrated with the Chrome operating system, with smooth scrolling (like on tablets!
Plus the ability to run Linux (via Crouton) simultaneously alongside the Chrome operating system transforms this little laptop into a powerful workstation for programming, digital content creation, legacy software emulation, gaming, and more.
I bought one for my husband for Christmas because his job is going paperless and he needs to get his pay stubs and schedule online.
His older sister liked his so much she asked me to get one for her and she loves it.
In the time that it takes a regular laptop to startup, I have what I need, close it and put it away - It is for instant access.
She despartly need a laptop for her school work.
I  bought it for my husband and he has a  very close friend that is Very up to date on all the new products.
Love the laptop but had to go buy a power cord for North America because they sent me an European cord.
The operating system  is windows 8 and not quit user friendly .
Banking , e-mails,-facebook, and games.
Wish it came with a disk for starting over in case of crash.
We purchased this computer for my college graduating son.
We were going to give it to him in May when he actually graduates, but the computer was shipped in the computer box with just a vacuumed plastic "bag" around it - no cushioning, not exterior box.
I could hear rattling in the box, grew nervous, and had to give him the computer (It only had a 14 day return policy) early so he could check it out and make sure it worked correctly.
By the way - the computer works great.
The touchscreen with Windows 8 is a must.
The ASUS was great for the budget I had at the time and the fact I quickly needed something to continue dealing with school work and working from home tasks.
All around an excellent investment when you want everything in a single package.
I am disabled and I am trying to finish online school waiting for them to call back with phase 4 of problem solving, they want me to send it in for repairs which means I will be out of a computer for 3-5 weeks.. cannot get a refund... .
I bought this for my daughter who is in high school.
It works just fine for what she needs it for in high school and it is quite a hit with her friends because of the portability and it being a tablet and a laptop.
I first purchased the 13 inch 2 in 1, but returned it (Best Buy) when I found the tablet was a little too big and heavy.
Purchased for $560  .
Windows is coming closer to World Domination.
First time using Window s 8.
The touchscreen is an absolute must with windows 8.
Hi, so today my daughter received her laptop, in which she was very excited to open and use, now imagine what a great disappointment it was for her to open the supposedly brand new laptop only to find a dent in the region of the speakers.
The unit came with 8.0 and I was about to update to 8.1 when I was prompted to do a back up of the 8.0 system;  note you need 24gb of capacity on a flash drive!
Unit wakes up from sleep mode in seconds.
Ended up buying a wireless mouse and keyboard.
Then when Microsoft upgraded the software to make the Start screen more user friendly (more like the previous Windows editions) that was icing on the cake.
Install an SSD drive to run the Operating system from.
The first one I bought, The CD drive kept opening over and over and over, I called HP and after a couple hours on the phone and no resolution they said it was a faulty unit, took it back to the store.
About two months later Windows 8 updated.
after now avail I tried to restore the machine with the factory installed restore partition.
After about two weeks windows 8 forced me to update.
and the problem returned.
That was two weeks ago, and windows just forced another update.
I am teaching a class on post producing photos from a computer in 1 hour.
Also the typing pressure was very uneven across the different keys leading to missing spaces and other typing errors.
I sent the first one back to Toshiba and received the repair a week later.
Toshiba is offering to repair it again but each repair takes the PC away for a week and they reset the system so all of my software has to be re-installed.
Decided to replace home PC with Windows XP with a laptop.
(Microsoft)
Good computer however the battery runs out quickly.
However today I cancelled by return and here is the reason.
a) Wireless in this laptop needs manually set up.
I had to workaround by setting up a new home network, enter the router PIN and then reset my wireless.
It took me several weeks to check almost all makes and in the Kansas City area (MO + KS) the S55-A5359 was sold out and consequently not available.
Two days to Kansas City,MO........ (This is the first month that I used it every day while many people give their opinion after unpacking the box)  JM
Nice computer for the dollars.
Perfect for the college student
Uninstall Origin, WildTangent Games, Toshiba Book Place, Toshiba App Place, Norton Internet Security (replaced with Microsoft Security Essentials), Norton Online Backup, and Norton Anti Theft.
I found the USB ports to be pretty tight (test both USB 3.0 and USB 2.0 ports).
I love it and I am happy I spent the time looking and  educating  myself about other manufacturers and decided to again go with Toshiba via Amazon.
Start up was a breeze.
Two Dell and two Gateway laptops died when the warranty ran out.
Hard drives were non-recoverable.)
keyboard well laid out - value for the money
She insisted on Windows 7.
This item was advertised and was sold as new, with windows 7 home premium.
Even if the computer was new in the beginning before they converted it, it became used when they converted it !
Also Toshiba customer service leaves a lot to be desired, (if you are even able to get hold of them) !
Finally, a call to Toshiba tech support resulted in identification of the problem.
started quick right out of the box.
Who on earth sells a computer without Microsoft Office ?
It gave me a 30 day trial and then I will have to purchase the program at (to me is to expensive to buy) a high cost.
Downloads take forever.
We moved the things that the wife wanted from her old computer to this one with no problems.
I bought this for her because the one she had was 7 plus years old.
Ready to go out of the box.
I wanted a new computer for my wife to keep up on the internet and to file and store items with speed and accuracy.
We also purchased the Microsoft Office Home and Student 2010 Key Card 1PC/1User, it was a little confusing to set up but not because of the computer.
The computer was easy to set up, not full of "bloatware" very simple and easy to follow setup instructions.
Since I was going out of town for a few months I did not have time to order a new one.
The fast awake feature is a favorite - computer is up and running immediately.
I was deciding between the Inspiron 15z and a Macbook Air, and I am glad that I went with this computer and saved some money.
PROS:-I have not encountered a single bug (computer freezing, touchpad/touchscreen issues, software issues, etc) since receiving the computer a few days ago.-The body of the computer is very sleek and is made of aluminum with a plastic underbelly.
The Dell met all of the requirements for my daughters use at college.
So user friendly with the Windows 8 (converted to 8.1 with the capable assistance of Dell Tech Support), operating system, stylish, with a lightning fast processor.
grand daughter graduated high school and needed a laptop.
looked all over and found the one she needed right here on Amazon.
Small power brick (fits in the palm of my hand)2.
Out of the promised 128 GB, windows shows only 102GB in explorer, and only 73GB is available for use.
LAN port is external (supplied)3.
U wont be dissapointed with this purchase
As other reviews noted, the space bar sticks and makes typing a nightmare.
This beats running all over town any day.
Mike - Boise
And the $520 price at Amazon makes it an easy decision, as I checked around on-line and found this HP model selling for between $629 & $749 elsewhere.
Horrible machine for the money.
Freedom of choice is a right customers should have...
None of these items are included with the descriptions listed for the purchase of thislaptop.
The computer comes on and works fine but in order to use it she has to connect it to a external monitor.
This was a good deal & I have a friend who desperately needed a computer.
I am not using, went back to using older one I had until I can go somewhere and purchase a new one.
She is disabled and this helps her to keep in contact with her friends and the world.
the delivery time was as stated and the product lived up to and surpassed expectations.
An awesome computer with 2 scratches on the outside.
Tech support ran diagnostics of software.
I actually am new to the internet I only broke down and came into the 21st century in December.
I`m an old fart, and I`m kinda old school.
If this will just be a travel (airplane) companion to your desk top computer.
!I have returned the laptop one week later and both an IMac
After I ordered it, I read the negative reviews posted previously, and I began to experience buyers remorse.
HP support after three calls I have been assured that I will get a call back in two days.
I received this equipment after using them for 3 consecutive days I stand failure restart automatically then I came the failure boot device not found please install an operating system on your hard disk kard (3F0) disk, switch it off and returned to work, then the next day it try to light and not fire more, call HP venezuela and Indian me that they cannot look after my team because it was bought outside of venezuela and that should be served in the United States.
On this model the Leap Motion is an external plug-in module, (via the USB cords provided).
I tried updating the Bluetooth driver(s) and the mouse completely stopped working requiring what I believe was a driver rollback and pairing the mouse again.
Mouse problem solved but at the expense of losing a USB port to the dongle.
On a positive note the HP SimplePass (finger swipe login) works well and as this is a Windows 8.1 machine logging in each and every time seems to be the <new> Windows way of life.
after sending another notebook back to amazon i ordered this one.
I ordered this product "new" and received a refurbished computer.
Within two months of ownership the plastic separated from the LCD.
HP Support and the seller have been unhelpful.
HP Envy 6-1110us 15.6-Inch Sleekbook (Black)
I returned the computer to Amazon (they were very helpful and issued a full refund) and bought something else.
Computer did not work,  just shut down in the middle of set up.
shouldnt happen with a brand new computer
I decided to go for this $600 Acer refurbished model (no new machines were available at the time of purchase) after reading the reviews and comparing the specs and features.
Everything went perfectly, the product came to me in Miami, Florida meeting high accuracy variant costs, but the next day I needed to find something on the internet and decided to release my new laptop, for which I take a horrible surprise when learning to use the machine, the screen started flashing and then the screen went completely black, thus causing not to use it.
Pretty self explanatory - the laptop completely crashed, and the end result was that I had to send it back to HP.
HP Support then tried to charge me $80 for shipping costs - which is a sham, since it was shipped to Tennessee from Chicago.
Finally they relented and agreed to cover shipping costs.
Still waiting for the laptop after two weeks.
Seven hours later, after 11 further attempts and having accessed literally hundreds of websites researching the problem (HP support is non-existent - and one of the websites referencing the error generated by the upgrade showing that it had been accessed over 10,000 times!).
Eventually resolved it by going back to basics and reinstalling the Windows 8 operating system - at which stage, it identified the Intel Bluetooth adapter as being an issue.
After disabling the adapter, the install went smoothly and the upgrade to 8.1 completed without any issue.
(!!!!
Love my new laptop except, Struggled for hours to get the w-fi to work on home network.
Wi-Fi would work when 5 feet from router, then drop once further away.
Excellent laptop for everything including, school, work, professional use.
No problems with getting hooked up to the network or installing new programs.
My advise to u guys, pls, before u buy contact the seller and ask all details!
However, the very next day (yesterday) the same problem occurred and again Dell is sending a new hard drive and will send a Tech to install it.
Apparently there is a problem where the hard drives they have been installing are not compatible with the system and they need to put in a hard drive from a manufacturer of a compatible drive.
Each time the hard drive is replaced it is like getting a brand new computer with nothing on it.
Two weeks passed and they have not sent it yet.
Needed to return due to complete failure.
Suggest you use the regular Win 7 backup to make a system image and recovery media rather than the Lenovo program - at some point in the Lenovo it said it was going to reformat my external hard drive which meant losing all the other data on it (this has been reported by others).
Just needs different F keys on start up to access these.
:) .
to/1edrzQFtook 2 stars out because the more powerfull brother (4th gen core i3 and 6gb of ram) is only 60 usd more.
Great, easy enough for my wife to use, runs all the video she needs and meets her needs as a casual gamer/facebook/reddit user.
Payed for next day delivery and got it in time, Package was however open on our doorstep, but seems to be undamaged.
Called Lenovo nosupport and after going up three levels they decided it was a software issue and I could pay an extra $99.00 to talk to a "senior" tech.
Arrived in a timely manner, but with limited "documentation" (eg, manual).
The on-line set up guide was not readily found.
Actually a IT fellow employee picked this one out keeping in mind what i told him I wanted to do with it.
Liked that it has internet virus protection on it.
Computer came as ordered.
I actually got a new computer at work that was a Lenovo and liked it, so when I was ready to purchase for home use - I shopped around and found this one.
Im calling lenovo now to begin technical assistance.
returned
As usual the Amazon price was right and delivery of the computer was within 2 days of ordering.
( I did this 3 times already, trying to learn how to share via Home-Group since I needed to copy all the stuff from old notebook).
In starting to work with the computer I had problems with the internet and McCaffe - Virus got in even after running scans on downloaded document twice.
to/1ejUtt7) with a difference of price of 100 usd.
After about one month, this laptop has met all of my expectations.
This is supposed to be a security factor allowing the user to move from room to room or meeting to meeting.
Came in under $600.
The computer worked for a day.
After finally getting a hold of technical support, we have to send it in for TWO WEEKS!
bought his for my dad and he has been having problems with from day one!
computer keeps crashing.
and he needs to send it to repair services.
I had mine for only 2 weeks and then one day no wi-fi, phone got on wi-fi, tablet got on wi-fi, but this brand new Sony Fit 14 no go.
However, the battery died in 6 months - yes, I have to keep it plugged in to work on the laptop.
I could not get the laptop repaired at home or at the Sony store in New York.
I have to send it in for 2 weeks to Texas for it to be repaired.
Cheaply made--keys on the keyboard stopped working after a few months.
This is to replace another Vaio Computer (3 yrs old)
After a few days of use, it started running smoothly.
Love the touchscreen feature and the suite of additional Sony programs.
Windows 8 will take time to get used to and slowly im learning.
Lots of hard drive space to store programs and video also.
Repeatedly drops internet connection.
and, our "computer person" even thought it was better than her year old Dell worth 3X the $$.
now waiting to get the n700 wireless mouse with laser pointerthanks lenavo.
As soon as i received it i installed a SSD, downloaded the windows 7 drivers from the lenovo site and installed W7 Professional.
The only turn off is that the double GPU heats the piece A LOT, at some points when gaming, you cant touch the sides (this is specially to the fathers who have little children who like to touch everything).
In my gaming group consisting of MSI Stealths, and Alienwares, I show up with my lowly Y510p and able to keep up with the big boys (previous rig was an Alienware M15x).
Watching my friend boot under six seconds on his Stealth makes the y510p look terribly slow and it is, when booting up.
Only wished it had Windows 7, but starting to get used to Windows 8.1.
Lenevo purchased the entire IBM line of laptop computers and this series is supposed to be a "new" model.
The back lit keyboard is OK, but the black covering on them wears off after only 2 months of use.
This item was exactly as described and, meets all the desired requirements.
However, I ordered  the 2nd removable card and was told it would ship in a month.
Somebody at the dispatch warehouse though needs his or her brains tested.
The battery life is as advertised ~3-4hrs.
From the moment I brought the computer home, it has crashed, noting a DCP watchdog violation.
I have spent three months on the pone with tech people.
perfect for the person who is always on the go.
Perfect for heading off to college.
Lesson learned!2.
I got lucky because a friend of mine knew how to back off the update.
Plus, the mouse pad key became stuck in a depressed position in the first couple days.
Headphone jack stopped working after a few weeks.
Called tech support and gave him remote access to troubleshoot.
He uninstalled & reinstalled the audio drivers but still not working.
revert to factory setting would be the next.
After I got the laptop from the shop where I paid to the pics transferred,  they are vital for my business.
spoke to them over an hour about a know problem with their photo importer program .
McAfee is built in with a 30 day trial and what happens at the end of that trial?
had to return,web page freeze, noisy
The keyboard, mouse and hand rest places will get hot after short period usage.
My daughter 12 years old was the first one who activated it.
She was very happy with her gift.
The only problem I have had was with Windows 8;however, having to have windows 8 as Microsoft will no longer support the programs I needed to use I had no other choice.
The computer came with 129 viruses.
When I contacted Lenovo support Icon I was told I had to pay $99 to clean up the computer.
)issues with this computer since almost day one after receiving this laptop just over a month ago.
So sending it back to their repair center was my only option left.
Having to pay to ship the computer for repairs that are under warranty was also made me very unhappy (they are only paying to return it to me).
They tend to stick around for a while.
Purchased as a graduation gift for my nephew for college.
He was very happy with his gift.
The keyboard and touch-pad quit working after the 3rd day of receiving the computer.
Bought a gift for my 82 year old mom, I installed remote control software so that I could show her (we live many hours away) how to use it.
In the one month she owned it there were at least ten days she couldnt use it, and I spent at least 15 hours playing tech support and trying to fix it (I am an engineer, pretty much a technology geek).
Amazon (as usual) was great helping return the machine.
This laptop was purchased for a student in our school, and it is a good piece of equipment for the price.
got it for a friend and she like it all but window 8.1 where is window 7 when you need it
The product did not come with a 32GB Solid State drive for OS and Programs (as advertised).
Amazon shipped the replacement (overnight shipping - thanks Amazon).
The second one worked for just over a month and crashed just like the first - would not boot up.
Im gonna search now how to downgrade to win7 to preserve my mental health.
RECEIVED FREE UPGRADE FROM MICROSOFT TO 8.1 LATER..... BOOTS UP FAST.....
Bought this for my son for school and gaming.
We had to buy a new printer & scanner.
After 5 years with an Asus laptop I decided a new computer would be great.
Fast foward to now.
this can only be reconciled by turning it off and back on.
A normal tap of the space bar or the touchscreen or the mouse should cause it to click back  on.
I wont purchase another lenovo computer as a quick google search will reveal the problems i listed across several models.
Stay away from this dealer.
Out of the box Carbon X-1 from them was defective on delivery.
Takes some time to get used to the adaptive keyboard and to the mouse.
After a day of trying many different things we ended up installing Windows 8.1 Enterprise from a DVD as a fresh install.
I ordered an Asus tablet and i knew i was in trouble as soon as i started playing with it.. felt cheap.
Was stuck with a 300$ Paper weight.
Not having learned my lesson i ordered an ASUS laptop... was great at first, til the first windows 8 update... computer crashed... tried to get in contact with ASUS.. no go again.
With only 3 months old, the speakers stopped working.
I plugged in the ethernet cable to get internet, downloaded some favorite programs, Rough Draft, Fox Fire, word web, Apache open office.
There are a few programs you need to find, the pop up screen for setting that will pop out the right side, it will take you to control setting & system security, you will also need to find back up, to do a windows repair disk on a cd or dvd , ( the repair disk is what you need if it crashes)  I did an image disk on the spare drive D: 42 gigs of info.
I saved a backup icon, on desktop, of windows defender( microsoft security essentials ) Later I found on settings/programs, uninstall program I pinned it to tray, it ended up on the start tiles, you then scroll all the way to the right end, so at least I can find it.
You can plan to spend most of your first day, down loading, up grading, And learning to save icons or pin to tray, so that you do not play hide and seek for the computers lifetime.
So now that I paid $319 to be frustrated all day, my wife has a new computer, in case the win 7 computer quits.
The computer works great for surfing the web and for scholar purposes (to search for an article, to use word and powerpoint, etc) Thanks a lot, guy.
I was in search of a good laptop with high end configuration a budget, finally after though R&D; I found this.
:)
Item was in an unopened factory package and brand new and all specs are same as indicated on site.
This unit is a member of the 5537 family ,per Dell support.
Dell Inspiron (i17RM-5164sLV) 17.3-Inch Laptop is a great laptop for only $729.99 dollars.
The previous review states they paid $449, which I think has to be a typo.
Amazon Prime got it here in 1 day for an additional charge of $5.99.
It is fast, attractive and arrived quickly.
I bought this computer in my wifes account back in Nov 2013 during cyber week sales.
They won`t offer to send you a new one.
going to Texas for two weeks watch out.
Dell Inspiron i17RV-3640BLK 17.3-Inch Laptop is a great laptop for under $600 and free 2-day shipping for Amazon Prime members.
Great service from Amazon on exchanging the machine.
After installing Windows 8.1, the computers hard drive crashed and would not reboot.
Then when I put on my own security, Norton, I started having problems with the system in general.
Got rid of Norton, that helped, and installed AVASt.
Love the computer....
to/1ejUtt7 this laptop to them, but they preffer dell.
Dell Inspiron (i17RV-8183BLK) 17.3-Inch Laptop is a great laptop for only $449 dollars.
Bought this computer for my daughter to replace her dell studio that finally crashed.
We purchased 5 of these laptops for a village on the island of Guam.
The children here are not as privileged as kids in the United States and the local village of Inarajan has just remodeled their village community center.
Once I found out that Windows XP was going to "expire", I decided to get a new computer and decided on a laptop.
in the Amazon laptop specifications and photos appears a cd (optical) drive, but I received the laptop without this drive.
I have no formal computer training or education, and am mainly self taught.
received the unit quickly and set up was quite easy.
also the keys are stiff and the space bar seems to need extra pressure to apply a space.
but being retired and out of the workforce for five years, I feel setup was very easy, just start, answer questions, add passwords,  plug in a printer,  and the system did all the work, set up the wireless connections etc.
.... Dave Mucci
Would recomend  this to a friend.
Friends bought it after they saw it here.
Windows 8.1 takes some getting used to.
We got our computers and we are loving them.
Quickly starts up.
Microsoft Windows 8.1 is not the same as older Windows & very different to use.
Five of them are Dell.
He chose it because it was in his price range.
Our family liked this computer, but something in the LCD seems to have exploded after only 2 months.
Whatever went wrong appears to have also killed the WIFI.
Internet only works through a cable.
They made multiple errors taking down my address, for the purpose of sending me a box to return the computer.
I was told that it could take up to 15 days, before I can even send the computer back for repair and that it will be seven to ten days after that, before I get it back.
First time I ordered a computer online (site unseen) and could not be happier.
I bought it to may dad 6 months ago from a local store (microcenter) at a deal price of $299+tax (as of july 2014 that price is still valid).
My dad is an average computer user who only does simple tasks including using microsoft office, surfing the internet, watching movies and listening to music.
(I have never seen any during the few days I used it at his home.)
arrived ready to go with battery already charged.
350 DOLLARS DOWN THE DRAIN :\ Never getting a dell AGAIN!!!!!!
I thought I would have trouble functioning within the Windows 8 realm, but their help site works awesomely.
Was disappointed to find out that Microsoft Word (on my 2003 Dell desktop) is not compatible with my new laptop.
We nearly purchased one from Amazon but through a stroke of luck I decided to search for one at MicroCenter and saved us $70.
It comes with McAfee installed so I nearly gave it only three stars but I found the control panel and can uninstall the McAfee virus easily (McAfee is junk).
It is a slim machine with a textured surface on the deck top and lid.
)No back light keysCamera .9 pixelsCame loaded with DELL spi ware
It is everything he wanted as well as needed for school.
Dell Inspiron i17RM-83901sLV 17.3-Inch Laptop is a great laptop for only $849 dollars.
After 3 weeks of working correctly the computer has suddenly stopped connecting to the internet wirelessly and does not even show the intel wireless chip set as installed (which I know it is as it worked before).
Multiple re-installs of the dreaded Windows 8.1 and reinstalling all the drivers have been to no avail - predictably both Dell and MSFT support are hopeless.
Am unhappy with windows 8.
Both of those had to have the hard drive replaced within a couple of months.
Windows 8 takes a little getting used to, although seems ok now after a week or so of using it.
Great computer for the $$!
Husband likes the rugged out case look as well.
It was to  replace her six year 15 inch dell.
I bought this laptop for my son to use when I am on the PC but have found that I use the laptop and he uses the PC.
Seller)
Sent it back, and got my money back the same day.
The first came broken.
Called Dell customer service and after an hour on the phone it was decided to return to sender.
Dell Inspiron 14.1 - Inch Touch screen Ultra book (i14 RMT - 7501 s LV)Is amazing ... and very economical
(As I was sending the above note I lost the internet connection.
This computer was in need of repairs from the get go  McAfee support could not install their program until I paid  99. oo dollars to repair what tech support said was over 620  file errors  The file were disabled or not running  these files should have been running or enabled..... needless to say this computer is being retured ASAP........
Reconnect and started up.
They will send me a new system board to be replaced.
They had sent me a refurbished system board.
The next step is to return the defective parts to Dell in the USA.
I have now to take a loan to pay the shipping charges.
I made several times contact to the Dell support, but they cover only shipping charges within the USA.
The computer is super fast and well built.
The unit is performing well except for the following.
The space bar is not functioning wellasthewords are not separating with the normal touch.
Alsothe delete key is lost on the topof theunit.
I was actually asked to leave Starbucks after "several" customers complained about the constant clicking.
The tiles for Windows 8 take some getting used to.
definitely false advertising and deceiving to get you to order.
:-(
Love the new computer, helped with my step sons homework and made life easier.
my step daughter never had a laptop before and since my other live her so much she wanted me to order her one so it is great and she love her too.
Moving from an eight year old XP system to the new computer plus Windows 8.1 is not for the faint of heart.
Microsoft Office is only a trial version!
Spent three hours with tech support repeating the same start up process multiple times to finally being told that there is an issue with the computer.
Told to send back to amazon and they could fix it and send it back.
This is a very high powered laptop, we actually ordered this for our admin at the office because we wanted something faster for her and we found this great deal.
Dell Inspiron 15.6-Inch Touchscreen Laptop (i15RVT-13333BLK)
hello operating system is windows 7, 8 or XP.
The only real drawbacks are the touchpad (kinda cheezy) and the inability to print to a standard non-cloud printer with out a second machine acting as a "server".
I had to return the first one they sent because of a dead pixel but the 2nd one worked great.
I am a college student so I need it to work with word documents, go on the internet, and (not necessary but wanted) to boot up fast and it does just that and more.
This is the device for someone who mainly accesses the internet (cloud) for their computing needs.
The instruction manual is nothing but a small leaflet, however; learning how to use the cloud versus local storage is not obvious and there are other functions that are significantly different from a typical Apple/PC that can be a struggle to master without the correct instructions available.
The quietest computer ever.5.
Good for a day trip to the library or to nowhere.6.
Could not power up in the morning without connecting to power supply.
Will be returning.
This laptop was for my 14 year old daughter.
I shopped around for several days looking for the best deal and I was happy with what I found.
he did a great job.
Very good quality PC, chrome operation system is easy to learn, very stable and with the on going virus protection, not many problems should be encountered.
After approx four hours of use the cursor stopped working.
It was factory sealed and well packaged,new.
I read instructions on how to "fix" the problem and decided against doing so.
Amazon sent a return shipping label and as soon as it was processed at ups they gave a refund on my card.
When I finally decided to dabble in the Chromebook experiment, I did so with the Acer c720.
Thankfully when CES rolled around Toshiba announced the 13 inch gray area for their respective Chromebook lineup.
Also, in 2014, any serious business traveler now owns a mobile WIFI (MIFI) device, or is proficient at using their cellular phone as a mobile hotspot.
Furthermore, the major airlines now offer in-flight Internet access, which can be purchased in advance of the flight, and, in fact, is included as a bonus for those who purchase a Chromebook, along with the 100GB of Google Cloud storage.
It has a 16GB solid state drive, which provides for very rapid startup, and some internal storage, which complements the 100GB of Google Cloud storage that is included with the device.
However, for some users, especially business travelers, it would be an ideal second, or backup computer.
Easy to use for school work.
My daughter and husband share this computer for surfing the web and schoolwork.
Google wants to control the world just like Apple, however Apple is still winning.
I am a law school student and I was getting tired of lugging around my old laptop.
6-7 hrs of streaming video watching on a flight to NYC and a train ride.
Once she heard the quality of the speakers, where it was actually difficult to make out voices on an Amazon video (which played clearly on our old Windows laptop), we decided to give up on the model.
Windows is used only for work now.
The system comes on within seconds.
Open the lid; everything in back in the blink of an eye.
There is also a program called Neutron Drive that allows file editing (with syntax highlighting and other IDE features) as well as FTP transfers and more through a remote connection.
Simply set up Neutron Beam on the target server and enter the security code into Neutron Drive on the Chromebook and you are up and running with an excellent web development machine.
The battery does last a long time and charges back up quickly.
After one year the hard drive failed.
No issues, gets put thru the battles being only laptop in 4 person family, long lasting battery, fires right up everytime, no crashing, great amount of storage.
i got a lemon... trying to return for an exchange currently.
I will be returning AS soon as I can order another LaptopI need something to run a Business etcVery dissatisfied with this one
Only problem is windows 8.1 and the bugs that come along with the operating system.
Repair place fixed the speaker problem within a week but their work was shoddy.
Did not replace rubber plugs underneath that go over screws and left the computer dirty from greasy hands.
Exchanging files on an internal network is a snap.
I purchased this machine last week during the installation of office 365 I was not able to get the Microsoft software to function at all.
Microsoft had four people at different times spend over 10 hours assisting me and they had to re-install windows 8.1 which wiped out the existing Toshiba installation.
The primary reason Microsoft had to nuke the computer was that Toshiba did not include a rescue Cd in their package so we had no choices when I asked the Toshiba representative about a rescue CD she told me I had to buy one.
Best gift he received (with the exception of money)!
Definitely going with him to college in the fall.
He was top notch, he made a nervous experience into a comfortable situation.
Use for home and travel .
This one was dead on arrival.
He is a college student and it does the job.
Am going to order another one for a friend today!
Love the computer
Arrived quickly and love the computer
arrived promptly
Time will tell if it provides her with the support she needs for college life.
I had trouble connecting the printer to my big Windows 7 desktop and decided to try a new and up to date system to dedicate to this process.
(I love it when a plan comes together!)
Total wast of money - and left it too late to return!
Purchased for a Fathers day gift and meeting all expectations.
Bought it 50 days ago , it is in the shop for new motherboard!
the seller is scam... they take your money and never send the item to your house saying that it is the responsibility of the shipping company to deliver it to you.
never got it at all, and had to report it stolen to amazon and police.
then after that i claimed a fraud case and got my money back after few months.
It arrived on time, and has worked wonderfully for over 2 weeks now.
After talking on the phone with a tech support man from Microsoft, my problems are solved.
Fast & (so far) reliable.
We were disappointed it did not include WORD, and we were unhappy that we had to buy the Office program in order to get WORD.
Slight learning curve initially because items are not located where they traditionally are.
I have been a loyal Sony fan for many years however, that has recently changed.
Unfortunately, the new computer also began having issues; however, with the Sony stores closing and the reduced tech support hours (12-hours down to 7-hours) getting reliable service has been a challenge so say the least.
I have sent emails to Sony customer service, which have gone unanswered.
PROS:-500GB solid state (Average is 128-256GB solid state for these type of laptops in price range)-touchscreen-lightup keyboard-slim charger-battery life lasting between 6-10hours (Depends on usage, settings, etc.
He is going to college...
After upgrading to SSD and 16gb ram everything loads and runs very fast.
Meh, it will be ok.- Of course the power Brick which is about the size of two macbook pro chargers (stated elsewhere in another review here).
After doing some research I discovered that this laptop is upgradeable.
I immediately upgraded the memory to 16 GB with another stick of Kingston RAM (Kingston Technology 8GB 1600MHz DDR3).
I also upgraded the HD to an SSD/Dual drive (WD Black2 Dual Drive 2.5" 120 GB SSD + 1 TB HDD Kit/).
Bought this tablet as a graduation gift for my daughter.
Portable and very nice to use as computer or tablet :) perfect for school or work usage :) thank u :)
The malware and adware started immediately, upon the very first start-up.
This convertible computer meets all expectations.
Google search showed thus has been a problem in the past yet the company chose to send product without correction.
Well, at the other hand it must have Windows 8 as I wanted Windows based toy.
I purchase one with additional 500 GB HD to put some movies and music for long trips over the ocean(s).
After a week the tablet tried downloading a Windows update and will not restart.
Started the set up process and during this found that the on/off button was "stuck" and could not turn the tablet on...... called Amazon and will  receive the replacement ...... will reserve final review when I get the replacement and see how set up and operation goes.
Several family members, after seeing mine in action, have now bought, or are planning to buy a T100TA for themselves.
Of course, the short fall there is that if you separate the keyboard from the unit, you lose access to the hard drive.
The 500 GB hard drive that is built into the Port/Keyboard is great for storing files to.
My only problem with this is that the tablet portion when detached does not have a USB port to plug in a wireless mouse receiver.
Problem fixed with the cable upgrade kit, sold at Amazon.
Love the full capacity laptop along with android app capabilities.
It is however a great annoyance when the tablet is matched up to the key board.
Not a "gaming" machine, but quite able to play old games.
It happened just a couple of weeks after buying it.
I returned it two weeks after I received it.
After only 3 weeks, the screen cracked under normal wear and tear.
I am a federal government Aerospace Engineer working abroad supporting the warfighter.
Of course this opens my entire system for EXPLOITATION by ASUS (e-mail, personal items, etc.)
linked with the new MS Windows software.
Windows 8.1 is a big win for Microsoft, especially when paired with a touchscreen.
The ability to switch seamlessly between tablet and desktop modes is really handy.
BE CAREFUL- not all programs will zoom in/out with fingers  (Windows issue)
The battery life is phenomenal,{I get 10 hours)  and is useful especially now that TSA rules say you have to power on your device before you can board aircraft.
Who knew that battery life would be so important in travel!
internal storage on the tablet.
32 gigs turned out to be 15 usable after compressing the drive, and even with a micro as card I have some issues with some apps not finding the data on the external card.
Also allows you to use XBox live games free.
Native RDP support and can connect to any server or workstation at work with the WI-FI using secure VPN.
Getting Windows Updates now.
The user guide and help sessions allowed me to easily learn Windows 8.1.
I do have to admit that Windows app store is sadly lacking, but since the tablet is basically a laptop PC, I can simply go to the web site instead of using an app (i. e. IMdB, by on-line banking site, etc.).
Once trial version end the purchaser must buy the final product.
A good travel companion.
Now if I can just master Windows 8.1.  ;-)
Have been taking time to learn all the info.
?Regards,Walter Pastor
Would (will) buy similar offering from ASUS when the time comes in a few years.
They advertise 16 gigs of web storage for 3 years.
!In fact I will never buy another computer on Amazon again!Dell Inspiron Desktop (i3647-2308BK)
We own our small business where everything we fabricate is custom made, starting with the design of the product.
One of my jobs is to search for tools through web catalogs.
Rome II: Total War looks and plays smoothly.
great replacement for the G750JX that was destroyed during a work trip to afghanistan.
Review MSI GT70 Dominator Pro 890-My laptop purchasing experience -First thing, I have over the past 6 months gone through over 10 laptops trying to find THE ONE.
This all started at Best, eventually led to Ama, and finished at New.
Starting with the Asus G750JX from last year (current year when purchased).
After the Samsung, I went and spent $2500 on the MacBook pro retina with discrete graphics.
When having these troubles with the apple, Asus came out with the newer versions of the G750, with the 800 series graphics and optimus which almost doubled the battery life.
Brought it back and exchanged it for the same model.
So I returned for money back, and went to ama.
Which was awesome, bought at 5pm, and paid $10 for next day shipping, had by noon the very next day.
The new ama purchased JS series I immediately ran stress tests instead of downloading and installing all my programs to figure out the heating issues.
Within a few weeks, temps were back to 100c and throttling.
I received next day and had 30 days to return mine via provided USPS prepaid shipping box.
But after about 2 weeks, started rendering again, and 100c temps came back.
Just I ran to New, it was 2:30pm, and tried to order before 3pm thinking (like with ama) that it ships out that day if ordered before 3.
I chose next day shipping, and rush order.
Has 2x 2.5 drive bays.
If you are using this laptop more for mobile workstation and will be using 3d animation software, or major video editing ($1000 adobe cs6 or Sony Vegas 12), then you might want to look elsewhere.
It has the same 2x 2.5 bays (unless you get the one with a 128 or higher ssd, then you get one 2.5 bay and a super raid daughter board with 3x msata slots).
The bottom panel (unlike ASUS which is small and only for ram and hhd, only requires a single screw to be removed for access), the MSI panel is a good section of the bottom of laptop.
To remove the bottom panel, your must break a warranty sticker which covers a screw.
The single larger fan, cools both CPU/GPU, and expels heat from left side and back side.
The fins on the left are in charge of CPU cooling, and back side is GPU cooling.
The 880m chip max temps 93c, chip also has NVidias boost feature, which makes the chip run as fast as it can until it gets to 93c.
Normal office setting, leads to 3-4 hours of use.
Most of all, it is brand new and runs windows 7,which is a must!
The Operating System on the computer was defective.
I went and bought an Asus after sending this Acer back.
I order the Acer for my daughter to take on a trip outside the country, but it arrived damaged with a cracked screen.
The replacement arrived too late for the trip and while setting it up I decided to keep it for myself.
I was ready for a new laptop after having a netbook for six years (still working great too).
However, the HP quality control had the week off and the keyboard would not register after the system booted into Windows.
Hours on the phone and HP had it sent to repair facility, who reinstalled the software and sent it back without checking to see if the repairs were made.
Computer returned with the knowledge that this is not the year to buy HP products.
received the wrong computer
I set this computer up for an old friend.
Also, Computer came with a "dud" drive.
Waiting after the third delay now on sending it back and getting a new one.
Awesome laptop used for multiple purposes including gaming.
For those who wants official start button on windows 8, In Aug. 2014 Microsoft will release windows version 8.1.2 to include start button.
considering returning it for refund:(
Comes with 2 smaller hard drives, and the operating system comes on the smaller of the 2 which makes it run slower if you put games on the bigger (non-op system) drive.
Not the best set up for gaming and not as advertised!
For the money, amazing laptop.
Shortly after the warranty period something is likely to break and be totally unavailable in North America, special order or not.
Then you can buy a used part on Ebay from another country as the only remedy (or throw the computer away.
Contact them to complain and never get a call back.
I asked  one of my friends who was playing world of Warcraft with me and using a HP laptop, and he told me that his laptop never gone crashed, and he bought that one about one year ago.
My laptop came preinstalled with malware and the internet refused to work.
Sorry for a Lengthy review, I just wanted to share everything with everyone out there who wants to buy this PerfoMonster (Performance Monster :) ).
And, anyone who is buying this laptop and not considering upgrading with SSD will stay a loser (sorry for harsh wording).
Ive played Battlefield 4, Max Payne 3, Batman Arkham Origins, Bioshock Infinite, Crysis 3 and Assassins Creed Black Flag on this beast.
I didnt use the Turbo option of the laptop for any of these games and Ive used FRAPS utility to observe Frames Per Second (FPS) in each game.
Other usage include connecting two other monitors (one 1080P, one 1600 X 900) through matrix technology, playing 1080P streaming video on one (Netflix and Youtube), downloading 25GB of Assassins Creed using UPlay and running other browsing and Visual Studio application on the third monitor.
Cold Boot Time with HDD = 17 seconds (From button pressed to first glimpse of Home screen)Cold Boot Time with SSD = 8 to 9 secondsBut the real difference is in routine working, opening closing applications, copying data here and there.
Crystal Mark benchmarks of SSD before and after RAID optimization and they were almost identical with both.
To install SSD into second bay, youll find a caddy support and screws inside the laptop box.
It is called UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface).
After cloning I change the boot order (explained below) to boot from SSD and saw two Windows 8.1 options to boot from.
I didnt find the right solution then but for those who want to do this, there are two options: 1) there is software named Advanced Tokens Manager v3.5 RC 5.
So, after cloning boot from HDD, create a backup of all certificates.
Plus, you can directly plug in your 5.1 surround system in the sound ports as there are three of them, first for Front speakers (second for Mic), Third for Rear speakers and Fourth for Surround speakers.
Why Amazon because 12 Month financing is available if you buy through Amazon :) using Amazon store card.
The website has a "Miss Print" according to MSI support.
I have been playing hitman abs, resident evil 5, witcher 2, need for speed hot pursuit and other games that came out a year or two ago  and all of them are on high-ultra with 30 fps at least.
well, it came today after I got it set up and tried one of my more graphically intensive games Euro Truck Simulator 2 and I was able to play it at max settings getting about 78 frames per second without to much heat.
Will update after 30 days.
If any problems arise later on i will come back and post them.
Computer arrived with a red vertical line down the left hand of the screen.
Easly handels running 3 eve clients plus shadow runs returns (both at highest setting) along with the mumble and jabber all at same time.2.
It will roast any thing put to the left of the laptop (so far it cooked a hot dog, will try popcorn this next weekend).2.
Norton is preinstalled (failed to see common malware speed dial) also yellowed flag the .
Recomend removing norton asap get a different anti virus.
The processing is very quickly, and he can open many window at the same time.
The design held up and the computer worked as it was supposed to until about three hours into using it when ghost images started to appear.
Does nobody test?
1 Month old GS60 computer has been a brick for 2 days.
MSI claims to have free support phone & on-line, but there is no real way to get in touch with them.
Numerous phone calls.... they ring through till the phone company steps in and disconnects.
docking station helps
The first was returned for replacement.
The 2nd is not being returned for refund.
After updating windows 8, I am only left with 59 gigs of free space.
Razer Blade Pro 17 Inch Gaming Laptop 512GB - Windows 8.1 - Nvidia GeForce GTX 765Mby RazerBe the first to review this itemList Price: $2,799.99Price: $2,705.51You Save: $94.48 (3%)http://www.
(7 lbs)
I decided to stay away from the previous ATIV book which had the super high resolution and used Windows 8.
The Internet needs another year or so to catch up with resolution that high.
MAX S.
My company has decided to go with Google Apps for Business, and with the ability to use Google mail, docs and sheets offline (as well as other chrome apps now getting the ability to be used offline) this makes a great device to do work on with the higher resolution, and better response than the original Samsung Chromebook.######Like everybody else, the Samsung seal was broken, making me wonder if there was a last minute addition to the packaging before being sent out on the truck, like updated manuals or something.
As an added bonus, T mobile is providing 200mb of free data every month on the HP for 2 years.
After three months of use the touchpad stopping working about 10 percent of the time.
As far as the complete package goes, (Battery life, screen, processing speed and construction) this unit takes the prize.
Samsung has set the bar higher and others should take notice that this is the model to get...
(this chromebook comes with one usb 3.0 port)
I have no desire to use a laptop  and deal with Windows updates that take forever, or the 2 minute boot up times when I want to quickly check something on the web.
Startup from the unit being off to being operational is about 8-10 seconds.
They made some improvements with the 2nd Chromebook.
Have had the same type computer for years.
I purchase a Dell Inspiron 15-3521 i15RV-10907BLK 16-Inch (1.8 GHz Intel i5 3337U Processor, 6GB RAM, 750 GB Hard Drive, Windows 7 Professional 64-bit) Black laptop on April 27, 2014, that was sold by bestelectronicdeal for $697.49.
they both arrived very quickly and packaged very well to prevent damage during shipping.
i contacted the seller and a gentleman named Seth replied.
he turned out to be perfectly professional, polite, courteously and down right a friendly person.
i had a replacement in 4 days and was refunded the shipping cost for the return.
The customer service is terrible for people in the usa.
I might have to buy her, her own now.
;-)
:(
The shipping was fast and the packaging was your typical alienware boxes that will protect your unit while it is being shipped.
Spend a few dollars more and get a Mac
Inserting a SD card took some time for the OS to recognize, but the SD card ended up as a drive letter when it was recognized.
I work in freelance media and teach college.
The Inspiron comes with a 2 GHz Intel Core i7 processor and 8 GB of ram (upgradeable to 16GB).
As far as connecting to the outside world the Inspiron comes with all the standard I/Os along with an HDMI jack that actually works correctly (not all computers can say this).
The Inspiron also has a media card reader built in and 2 USB 3.0 ports which will come in handy on a machine with no optical drive.
The Inspiron comes with Windows 8.1 (64 bit) installed.
One has Vista, one has Windows 7 and two have Windows 8.
The packaging was barebones.
It has a difficult time maintaining a WiFi connection to my home network (compared to my PowerBook, iPhone, and iPad which are all in the same room).
I was able to reach someone from Dell technical support (but not order support) on a Sunday to verify the laptop is in fact the non-touchscreen version.
The keyboard is backlit (just like a MacBook).
Open a File Explorer window, search for Chrome.
Because of the beige tint to everything (which is restful on the eyes), the blue Google theme looked muddy.
Just got mine in and immediately upgraded it to 16gb RAM and a Samsung Evo SSD.
the machine DOES INCLUDE an external USB DVD+/-RW Drive.
Also, this is an 8GB (2x4GB) system.
the casing on the left side where the hdmi and usb ports are located has a gap.
This computer is $280 more on the Lenovo site than is advertised here.
Then when it was just past the warranty HP said that since we had so many problems they would charge us only $150 (!)
Ordered this laptop from lenovo site (it was 16gig ram and 4gig vga)  take forever to boot up window and graphics card seems not working, overall such an waste of money and time :( going back to hp again!
The Google Chrome operating system is a web-centric operating system based upon the Linux kernel, which essentially augments the Google Chrome browser with actual computing functionality and capability.
It is a streamlined and minimalist operating system, whose only native applications are the Chrome web browser, a file manager, and an integrated media player.
All other programs and applications do not actually reside within the computer, as with traditional operating systems, but, rather, are derived from the web, hence the term "thin client" computer.
Chromebooks are heavily reliant on the cloud, which is a vast array of interconnected servers, accessible via the internet, which houses the computing resources of both individual computer users, and large entities, such as corporations, school systems, and government agencies.
Superior security is derived from the fact that there is no mechanism for viruses and malware to be installed into a Chromebook in any way similar to the manner in which they are able to infect a traditional computer.
In addition, the sandboxing technology that is integral to the Chrome operating system, maintains separation between the actual operating system and the applications, protecting against virus and malware cross-infection.
I imagine that individuals who have been well-served for many years by computers running on the Windows operating system, or by the elegant MacBook line of computers, would be unlikely to adopt a Chromebook as their primary computer.
Similarly, those computer users who have experienced longstanding service from, and satisfaction with, the Microsoft Office suite of business productivity applications, might also be unlikely to switch to a Chromebook.
However, the majority of the computing public use their computers for more routine activities such as E-mail, internet search, social networking, typing school and/or work documents, preparing slides for presentations, and organizing and analyzing data on a spreadsheet.
Also, in mid-2014, most business travelers now have cellular phones that can function as mobile hotspots, or own mobile WiFi (MiFi) devices, or purchase in-flight internet access from their airline in advance of their flight.
My analysis of the specific characteristics and components of the 11.6-Inch ASUS C200MA-EDU-4GB Chromebook is as follows:DESIGN/BUILD: The color of the top and bottom sections of this device is a shade or two lighter than black, almost a dark gunmetal color, with the Chrome logo in the upper left corner of the lid, and the silver ASUS letters in the middle.
The keyboard deck is silver, and the keys themselves are black, with silver letters, numbers, and symbols.
It is thin, with a width of 0.8 inches (20mm), and it only weighs 2.5 pounds (1.15kg).
CONNECTIVITY: On the left side of the computer, there is the power/charging port furthest back, then a full-size HDMI 1.4 output port, the USB 3.0 port, a full-size SD card slot, and the combination audio jack furthest forward.
Furthest back on the right side, is the connection for the Kensington lock, with only the USB 2.0 port in front of it.
There will soon be 802.11ac WiFi capability, which will be installed automatically, as part of a future update of the Chrome operating system.
In order to keep the cost of the device well below $400.00, this is one of the compromises that was necessary.
The keyboard has the standard Chromebook layout, and the keys are well-spaced, with good key travel.
When performing mainstream work functions such as E-mail, internet research, writing reports and consultations, and preparing slides and spreadsheets, the run time of this computer is in excess of twelve hours, which is absolutely incredible.
The Bay Trail chip was not designed for high-level processing power, although, as I have stated above, I have found it to be plenty fast for performing mainstream work functions such as E-mail, internet research, typing documents, and creating slides and spreadsheets.
This is a beautiful computer with one pitfall.
Now on to the plusses.
Battery life is as advertised and the machine held the battery charge for four days when I did not use the computer.
When I said I then wanted a replacement instead of a repair (figuring maybe I had a lemon), I entered a maze of smoke and mirrors being transferred to about a dozen people in 2 different countries, multiple times being told, sorry, this was the wrong department.
Great specs until you hit the battery specs:"Battery: Lithium Ion (43Wh, 4-Cell)*Not user replaceable."
- come again?
After 2 weeks of use this laptop turned out to be complete disaster!!
After I gave her the rest of my information she suddenly said the date changed and then said it actually was no longer under warranty.
After about two weeks of getting the runaround from their "managers" I am being told my computer is not going to be covered.
com/gp/product/B00FNPD1VW/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp;=1789&creative;=9325&creativeASIN;=B00FNPD1VW&linkCode;=as2&tag;=newcams-20
She loves playing on it!
It comes with an Intel Celeron N2830 CPU, 4GB of RAM (expandable to 8GB), a 500 GB hard drive, 802.11bgn Wi-Fi support and a built-in webcam.
Everything as advertised.
com hoping to find a good deal.
After I saw this HP 15t laptop for $499 with free shipping, I clicked on the link and I was redirected to shopping.
